Indicator 8.6.1: Proportion of youth (aged 15-24 years) not in education, employment or training
Target 8.6: By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training
Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the percentage of young persons (aged 15-24 years) not in education, employment or training, out of the total youth population. It is also called the ‘youth NEET rate’. 
Concepts:
Education, according to the International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED), is defined as organized and sustained communication designed to bring about learning. It comprises the following:
(1)    Formal education - education that is institutionalized, intentional, and planned through public organizations and recognized private bodies and, in their totality, make up the formal education system of a country.
(2)    Non-formal education - education that is institutionalized, intentional and planned by an education provider but is considered an addition, alternative and/or a complement to formal education. It may be short in duration and/or low in intensity and it is typically provided in the form of short courses, workshops or seminars. 
Employment comprises all persons of working age who during a short reference period (one week), were engaged in any activity to produce goods or provide services for pay or profit. 
Training is defined as a non-academic learning activity through which students acquire specific skills intended for vocational or technical jobs. Vocational training prepares trainees for jobs that are based on manual or practical activities, and for skilled operative jobs, both blue and white collar related to a specific trade, occupation or vocation. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
The youth NEET rate provides a broader measure of youth disengaged from productive activities than measured by only youth unemployment. It includes young discouraged jobseekers, i.e. those who are not actively seeking employment, as well as those who are outside the labour force due to other reasons such as engagement in household chores or disability.   
It is a direct measure of progress towards target 8.6.
Data Sources and Collection Method
The data for this indicator is collected through household-based labour force surveys, population census, and any other nationally representative household surveys with an appropriate employment module. Such surveys are generally conducted by the ministries or bureaus of labour or national statistical offices.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
This indicator can be calculated using the following formula:
￼
where,
Y is the total number of youth;
YEmp is the number of youth in employment; and
YUET is the number of youth not in employtmet but in education or training. 
Comments and limitations:
The computation of this indicator requires reliable data on both the labour market status and the participation in education or training of young persons. The quality of such information is heavily reliant on the questionnaire design, sample size and the accuracy of respondents’ answers. 
In terms of the analysis of the indicator, in order to avoid misinterpreting it, it is important to bear in mind that it is composed of two different sub-groups (unemployed youth not in education or training and youth outside the labour force not in education or training). The prevalence and composition of each sub-group would have policy implications, and thus, should also be considered when analysing the NEET rate. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by sex, urban/rural, age (within the youth age band) and level of educational attainment.
