Indicator 8.8.1: Frequency rates of fatal and non-fatal occupational injuries, by sex and migrant status
Target 8.8: Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment
Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the number of cases of fatal and non-fatal occupational injury per hour worked by the reference population during a given period. However, the most common practice in terms of calculation of occupational injuries indicators is the number of cases of fatal and non-fatal occupational injury per 100’000 workers in the reference group. 
Concepts:
Occupational injury is defined as any personal injury, disease or death resulting from an occupational accident. An occupational injury is different from an occupational disease, which comes as a result of an exposure over a period of time to risk factors linked to the work activity. Diseases are included only in cases where the disease arose as a direct result of an accident. 
Occupational accident is defined as an unexpected and unplanned occurrence, including acts of violence, arising out of or in connection with work which results in one or more workers incurring a personal injury, disease or death. It includes travel, transport or road traffic accidents which arise out of or during work. 
For additional clarifications on occupational accidents and injury, please see Resolution concerning statistics of occupational injuries from the 16th International Conference on Labour Statistics (ICLS 1998). 
According to the UN Recommendations on Statistics of International Migration, an international migrant is defined as any person who changes his or her country of usual residence. However, in practice, due to the difficulties of applying this definition for measurement, many countries choose to define individuals’ migrant status based on their country of citizenship or their country of birth. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
This indicator provides to monitor and identify trends in workplace safety. It helps:
(1)     to inform employers, employers’ organizations, workers and workers’ organizations of the risks associated with their work and workplaces, so that they can take an active part in their own safety;
(2)    to evaluate the effectiveness of preventive measures; to estimate the consequences of occupational injuries, particularly in terms of days lost or costs; and
(3)    to provide a basis for policymaking aimed at encouraging employers, employers’ organizations, workers and workers’ organizations to introduce accident prevention measures.
Data Sources and Collection Method
Statistics on occupational injuries can come from a variety of sources, including different types of administrative records, such as records of national systems for the notification of occupational injuries (labour inspection records and annual reports; insurance and compensation records, death registers), household surveys (allowing to cover informal sector enterprises and the self-employed) and establishment surveys. A combination of these sources can be used to improve data quality and coverage. These data are generally compiled by labour ministries, national insurance companies, and national statistical office. 
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
Fatal and non-fatal occupational injury rates are calculated separately as follows:
￼
If data on the number of hours worked is unavailable, then the number of workers in the reference population can be used instead to calculate the rate of fatal and non-fatal occupational injury per 100’000 workers in the reference group, as follows: 
￼
Comments and limitations:
Occupational injuries are often underreported, which means that occupational injuries statistics from administrative records or registry systems may be less than comprehensive. Proper systems are required to ensure best reporting and data quality. Double counting of cases of occupational injury can also occur when several registries (records from different agencies) are consolidated to have more comprehensive data. 
This indicator is very volatile, as major accidents or national calamities can significantly impact the derived estimates at a given point in time. Thus, it may be better to analyse the trends in the indicator, rather than the levels. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator is required to be disaggregated by sex and migrant status. It can also be disaggregated by economic activity and occupation.
