SDG 8: Economic Growth

Roughly half the worlds population still lives on the equivalent of about US$2 a day with global unemployment rates of 5.7% and having a job doesnt guarantee the ability to escape from poverty in many places. This slow and uneven progress requires us to rethink and retool our economic and social policies aimed at eradicating poverty.

A continued lack of decent work opportunities, insufficient investments and under-consumption lead to an erosion of the basic social contract underlying democratic societies: that all must share in progress. Even though the average annual growth rate of real GDP per capita worldwide is increasing year on year, there are still many countries in the developing world that are decelerating in their growth rates and moving farther from the 7% growth rate target set for 2030. As labor productivity decreases and unemployment rates rise, standards of living begin to decline due to lower wages.

Sustainable economic growth will require societies to create the conditions that allow people to have quality jobs that stimulate the economy while not harming the environment. Job opportunities and decent working conditions are also required for the whole working age population. There needs to be increased access to financial services to manage incomes, accumulate assets and make productive investments. Increased commitments to trade, banking and agriculture infrastructure will also help increase productivity and reduce unemployment levels in the worlds most impoverished regions.

The global unemployment rate in 2017 was 5.6%, down from 6.4% in 2000.
Globally, 61% of all workers were engaged in informal employment in 2016. Excluding the agricultural sector, 51% of all workers fell into this employment category.
Men earn 12.5% more than women in 40 out of 45 countries with data.
The global gender pay gap stands at 23 per cent globally and without decisive action, it will take another 68 years to achieve equal pay. Womens labour force participation rate is 63 per cent while that of men is 94 per cent.
Despite their increasing presence in public life, women continue to do 2.6 times the unpaid care and domestic work that men do.
470 million jobs are needed globally for new entrants to the labor market between 2016 and 2030.
Goal 8 targets

Sustain per capita economic growth in accordance with national circumstances and, in particular, at least 7 per cent gross domestic product growth per annum in the least developed countries
Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors
Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services
Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value
By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training
Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms
Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment devise and implement policies to promote sustainable tourism that creates jobs and promotes local culture and products
Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all
Increase Aid for Trade support for developing countries, in particular least developed countries, including through the Enhanced Integrated Framework for Trade-Related Technical Assistance to Least Developed Countries
By 2020, develop and operationalize a global strategy for youth employment and implement the Global Jobs Pact of the International Labour Organization

30 million: Number of jobs required every year for new entrants to the labour market to keep up with the growth of the global working age population.
DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH: WHY IT MATTERS
To promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all.
Poverty eradication is only possible through stable and well-paid jobs. Nearly 2.2 billion people live below the US$1.90 poverty line.
How many people are unemployed?
According to the International Labour Organization (ILO), 5.6 per cent of the global population were unemployed as of 2017. In 2018, the total number of unemployed people remains high above 192 million and it is harder to find decent jobs.
How many jobs are needed?
470 million jobs are needed globally for new entrants to the labour market between 2016 and 2030, just to keep up with the growth of the global working age population. Thats around 30 million per year.
So if they all got a job will extreme poverty end?
In addition to creating jobs, we also need to improve conditions for the some 783 million women and men who are working, but not earning enough to lift themselves and their families out of poverty.
In addition, women and girls must enjoy equal access to equal opportunities with men and boys for employment.
I have a job. Why does this matter to me?
Society as a whole benefits when more people are being productive and contributing to their countrys growth. Productive employment and decent work are key elements to achieving fair globalization and poverty reduction. In addition, unemployment can lead to unrest and disrupt peace if it is left unaddressed.
What does decent work mean?
Decent work means opportunities for everyone to get work that is productive and delivers a fair income, security in the workplace and social protection for families, better prospects for personal development and social integration.
It is also important that all women and men are given equal opportunities in the workplace.
A continued lack of decent work opportunities, insufficient investments and under-consumption lead to an erosion of the basic social contract underlying democratic societies: that all must share in progress.
Providing youth the best opportunity to transition to a decent job calls for investing in education and training of the highest possible quality, providing youth with skills that match labour market demands, giving them access to social protection and basic services regardless of their contract type, as well as levelling the playing field so that all aspiring youth can attain productive employment regardless of their gender, income level or socio-economic background.
Governments can work to build dynamic, sustainable, innovative and people-centred economies, promoting youth employment and womens economic empowerment, in particular, and decent work for all.
Local authorities and communities can renew and plan their cities and human settlements so as to foster community cohesion and personal security and to stimulate innovation and employment.
