Indicator 3.4.1: Mortality rate attributed to cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory disease
Target 3.4: By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being
Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the per cent of 30-year-old people who would die before their 70th birthday from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, or chronic respiratory diseases, under the assumption that the experienced mortality rate does not change over time, excluding other causes of death such as accidents or HIV/AIDS. This indicator is calculated using the life table method. 
Concepts:
Probability of dying refers to the likelihood that an individual would die between two ages given current mortality rates at each age, calculated using life table methods. The probability of death between two ages may be called a mortality rate. 
Life tables show the mortality experience of a hypothetical group of infants born at the same time and subject throughout their lifetime to a set of age-specific mortality rates. 
Cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases refer to diseases coded as I00-I99, COO-C97, E10-E14 and J30-J98 of the 10th revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health problems (ICD-10). 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Disease burden from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) among adults is rapidly increasing in developing countries due to ageing. Cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes and chronic respiratory diseases are the four main causes of NCD burden. Measuring the risk of dying from these four major causes is important to assess the extent of burden from premature mortality due NCDs in a population.
Data Sources and Collection Method
The preferred data source is death registration systems with complete coverage and medical certification of cause of death. Where such death registration systems do not exist, data can be collected through household surveys and sample registration systems with verbal autopsy. For further information, please refer to WHO (2010).
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method: 
This indicator is calculated based on the life tables influenced by only the four NCDs and applying the the cause-specific death rate to each 5-year age range. (If the cause-specific death rate cannot be disaggregated by 5-year age range, it can be constant.) The  mortality rate for each 5-year age group is calculated as follows:
￼
Mortality rates must be calculated for each five-year age group between ages 30 and 70. Then translate the mortality rate into probability of dying between exact age  and exact age , ￼ :
￼
Finally, the probability of death between the ages of 30 to 70, independent of other causes of death can be calculated as:
￼
Comments and limitations:
Data on deaths are available from countries from death registration data or sample registration systems that record information on cause of death, but less than one half of WHO member states have well-functioning death-registration systems that record causes of death. Data gaps and limitations in some regions reinforce the need for caution when interpreting global comparative cause of death assessments, as well as the need for increased investment in population health measurement systems.
The use of verbal autopsy methods in sample registration systems, demographic surveillance systems and household surveys provides some information on causes of death in countries without well-established death registration systems, but there remain considerable challenges in the validation and interpretation of such data, and in the assessment of uncertainty associated with diagnoses of underlying cause of death.
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by sex and subnational area.
