Indicator 3.7.2: Adolescent birth rate (aged 10-14 years; aged 15-19 years) per 1,000 women in that age group
Target 3.7: By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, including for family planning, information and education, and the integration of reproductive health into national strategies and programmes
Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the annual number of births to females of age groups 10-14 or 15-19 per 1000 females in the respective age group. 
Concepts:
Live birth is defined as to the complete expulsion or extraction from its mother of a product of conception, irrespective of the duration of the pregnancy, which, after such separation, breathes or shows any other evidence of life—e.g. beating of the heart, pulsation of the umbilical cord or definite movement of voluntary muscles—whether or not the umbilical cord has been cut or the placenta is attached. Each product of such a birth is considered live born (WHO, 2018).  Total number of live births is then the total number of births excluding stillbirths.  
Rationale and Interpretation:
Reducing adolescent pregnancies and adolescent birth rates is an important priority for many Governments (United Nations, 1994; United Nations, 2013).  Adolescent childbearing is associated with a wide range of risks for young mothers. Women who become pregnant and give birth very early in their lives as well as their newborns are subject to elevated health risks (Nove and others, 2014; WHO, 2014). Particularly in low- and middle-income countries, the risk of deaths of infants born to teenage mothers is about 50 per cent higher than the risk of death of newborns of mothers aged 20-29 (WHO, 2014).  Adolescent pregnancies are closely linked to unsafe abortions, an often cause for maternal deaths and lingering health problems are often caused by. Young women are particularly vulnerable as they are more likely than older women to undergo late abortions (Lim and others, 2012) and to have repeat abortions (Collier, 2009).  Apart from health risks for mother and child, adolescent pregnancy curtails opportunities for socio-economic development of young girls, forcing young girls to discontinue or interrupt their education, depriving them of advanced education, secure job opportunities, in many cases leading to lower future earnings, perpetuation of poverty cycles, social and political exclusion (United Nations, 2013).  Therefore, preventing births very early in a woman’s life is an important measure to provide young woman with adequate education and life-long opportunities, improve maternal health, and reduce infant mortality.
Data Sources and Collection Method
The best estimates of fertility and adolescent birth rates in particular are obtained from a universal and well-functioning civil registration and vital statistics system (United Nations, 2014). In such a system, all births are registered shortly after occurrence and a birth certificate is issued for every child born. The information from the birth certificates is then used for the production of vital statistics. The population exposures needed for computations of fertility rates are based on annual population estimates, which are derived from the population by age and sex enumerated in population censuses, births, deaths, and migration for intercensal or postcensal periods. In countries with operating population registers population censuses are not regularly conducted, since statistics in such countries are based on the continuous collection of information on both population and vital events. In these countries, annual population estimates are based on the data recorded in the population registers. 
The quality of the estimates depends on the accuracy of the information collected on births and on the accuracy of population estimates. One of the main sources of error is the incomplete coverage of birth registration or population statistics.  Population registers tend to produce population data of better quality and accuracy than population censuses. Nevertheless, population estimates based on registers might still be affected by inaccurate and incomplete data on international migration.  When vital registration systems fail to record all births that take place during a given period of time or population censuses fail to enumerate every individual, their coverage is said to be incomplete. Using incomplete data to produce fertility estimates requires adjustments to births and population estimates. In the case of population censuses, adjusted population estimates are usually produced by conducting a post enumeration survey.  Also, the coverage and completeness of civil registration is often assessed by a dual registration approach or by using alternative sources of information on vital events.  More detailed accounts of methods for assessing the quality of population and vital statistics are given in Preston and others (2001), Bogue and others (1993), Shryock, Siegel, and Associates (1980). Moriyama (1990) describes an array of methods historically used to evaluate the quality of population and vital statistics in the United States. 
In countries with incomplete vital registration, the main sources of information on fertility levels and trends are population censuses and nationally-representative household surveys. 
The infrequency with which censuses are conducted (typically every 10 years) is one of their main limitations—it is often inadequate for the management and monitoring of population and development programmes.  A more flexible and by far less expensive mechanism for collecting fertility data are sample household surveys. Due to their smaller sample sizes, data on fertility can be collected more frequently and questions can be more detailed and targeted than in population censuses. Full birth histories have become the dominant source for producing estimates of fertility levels and trends for countries without well-functioning civil registration and vital statistics systems.  A birth history records every live-born child a woman has had, the child’s sex, date of birth and, if the child died, the date of death.  The full birth histories have been routinely collected starting with the World Fertility Survey in the late 1970s.  Direct computation of fertility rates from birth histories is well documented in Croft (1991) and Rutstein and Rojas (2006). 
Some examples of relevant, internationally coordinated surveys are the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), the Reproductive Health Surveys (RHS), and the Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS). Examples of national surveys are the European Fertility and Family Surveys (FFS) or the Pan-Arab Project for Family Health (PAPFAM).
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
Monitoring this indicator requires tracking of two rates: (1) age-specific fertility rate for mothers aged 10-14 and (2) age-specific fertility rate for mothers aged 15-19.  An age-specific fertility rate is defined as ratio of annual numbers of live births of mothers of a certain age interval to person-years lived (or population exposures) by women in that age interval (Preston and others, 2001).  The age-specific fertility rate for mothers aged 10-14 is defined then as
 ￼
Similarly, the age-specific fertility rate for mothers aged 10-15 is defined then as 
￼ Both rates could be computed for single calendar years and for longer periods. 
Comments and limitations:
Discrepancies between the sources of data at the country level are common and the level of the adolescent birth rate depends in part on the source of the data selected. For civil registration, rates are subject to limitations which depend on the completeness of birth registration, the treatment of infants born alive but die before registration or within the first 24 hours of life, the quality of the reported information relating to age of the mother, and the inclusion of births from previous periods. The population estimates may suffer from limitations connected to age misreporting and coverage. 
For survey and census data, both the numerator and denominator come from the same population. The main limitations concern age misreporting, birth omissions, misreporting the date of birth of the child, and sampling variability in the case of surveys. With respect to estimates of the adolescent birth rate among females aged 10-14 years, comparative evidence suggests that a very small proportion of births in this age group occur to females below age 12. Other evidence based on retrospective birth history data from surveys indicates that women aged 15-19 years are less likely to first births before age 15 than women from the same birth cohort when asked five years later at ages 20–24 years. 
The adolescent birth rate is commonly reported as the age-specific fertility rate for ages 15-19 years in the context of calculation of total fertility estimates. It has also been called adolescent fertility rate. A related measure is the proportion of adolescent fertility measured as the percentage of total fertility contributed by women aged 15-19. 
Empirical evidence on adolescent fertility for the 10-14 year age group is often lacking ast he rates are not reoutinely published as for the 15-19 year group due to much smaller rates, limited data collection, and dubious quality due to omission and competence issues. Even if the data are collected, they often require special access and data processing. By and large, the most of empirical evidence on adolescent births is available for the age group 15-19.
 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
The disaggregation of adolescent birth rates by geographical area, rural or urban residence, women’s level of education, poverty status and other characteristics that are relevant in the national context help identify population sub-groups where levels of adolescent birth rates are highest and formulate policies for the reduction of adolescent birth rates and the improvement of reproductive health of adolescent girls. 
The indicator would benefit from disaggregation by single year because fertility rates vary significantly within and across the 10-14 and 15-19 5-year age groups.  Evidence suggests that a very small proportion of births in this age group occur to females below age 12, and that the risk of childbearing in these two age-groups sharply increases with age. Age patterns vary across countries and over time, but in general, the single-age disaggregation permits for a finer assessment of the risks, and the identification of the populations served by the relevant programs.
The recommended dimensions of disaggregation for this indicator includes age (by single years of age, whenever possible), education, marital status (married/in union; never married; ever married; all women), socioeconomic status (country-specific categories), geographical location and other relevant categories, as allowed by the corresponding data source and the number of observations underlying each unit of disaggregation. 
Specific limitations for data disaggregation by specific to indicator 3.7.2 include:
	1.	Age: fertility data in surveys and vital registration are often not collected or reported for individuals under the age of 15 years, for cultural, legal and other reasons;
	2.	Marital status: fertility data often collected only for married/in union women (for cultural and legal reasons)
	3.	Sample size of household surveys 
