Indicator 3.5.2: Harmful use of alcohol, defined according to the national context as alcohol per capita (aged 15 years and older) consumption within a calendar year in litres of pure alcohol
Target 3.5: Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol
Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
Total alcohol per capita consumption (APC) is defined as the total (sum of recorded and unrecorded alcohol) amount of alcohol consumed per person (15 years of age and older) over a calendar year, in litres of pure alcohol, adjusted for tourist consumption. The estimates for the total alcohol consumption are produced by summing up the 3-year average per capita (15 years of age and older) recorded alcohol consumption and an estimate of per capita (15+) unrecorded alcohol consumption for a calendar year. 
Concepts: 
Recorded alcohol consumption refers to alcohol consumed according to the official statistics at country level based on production, import, export, and sales or taxation data. 
Unrecorded alcohol consumption refers to alcohol which is not taxed and is outside the usual system of governmental control, such as home or informally produced alcohol (legal or illegal), smuggled alcohol, surrogate alcohol (which is alcohol not intended for human consumption), or alcohol obtained through cross-border shopping (which is recorded in a different jurisdiction). 
Tourist consumption takes into account tourists visiting the country and inhabitants visiting other countries. Positive figures denote alcohol consumption of outbound tourists being greater than alcohol consumption by inbound tourists, negative numbers the opposite. Tourist consumption is based on UN statistics, and data are provided by IHME. 
Pure alcohol volume is derived using the following conversions of alcohol content (% alcohol by volume): Beer (barley beer 5%), Wine (grape wine 12%; must of grape 9%, vermouth 16%), Spirits (distilled spirits 40%; spirit-like 30%), and Other (sorghum, millet, maize beers 5%; cider 5%; fortified wine 17% and 18%; fermented wheat and fermented rice 9%; other fermented beverages 9%). 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Alcohol consumption can have an impact not only on the incidence of diseases, injuries and other health conditions, but also on the course of disorders and their outcomes in individuals. Alcohol consumption has been identified as a component cause for more than 200 diseases, injuries and other health conditions. Per capita alcohol consumption is widely accepted as the best possible indicator of alcohol exposure in populations and of effectiveness of population-based prevention efforts to reduce the harmful use of alcohol. It is also the key indicator for estimation of alcohol-attributable disease burden and alcohol-attributable deaths. Its correct interpretation, however, requires the use of additional population-based indicators such as prevalence of drinking and heavy episodic drinking, and, as a result, stimulates development of national monitoring systems on alcohol and health involving strengthening of national data on sales of alcoholic beverages and production and trade with contributions from a wide range of stakeholders as well as conducting representative population-based surveys to generate data on patterns of alcohol consumption.
Data Sources and Collection Method
For recorded alcohol consumption, government statistics are the preferred data source. In cases where government data on production, import, export, sales or taxation are inadequate, alcohol industry statistics are used. In the absence of such data, FAOSTAT is used as a source of data. In order to improve the quality of data, countries need to develop/strengthen registration, monitoring and surveillance systems of sales and taxation data or on production, import and export of alcoholic beverages or, e.g. through their national statistics offices or tax administration departments. 
For unrecorded alcohol consumption, nationally representative survey data, specific empirical investigations, and expert opinions can provide the necessary data for producing the estimates. In order to improve the data, countries need to conduct specific empirical investigations or include questions on unrecorded consumption in their nationally representative surveys, in the same way as it is included e.g. in the WHO STEPS survey instrument. 
For tourist consumption, the litres of alcohol consumed by tourists in a country are based on the number of tourists who visited a country, the average amount of time they spent in the country, and how much these people drink on average in their countries of origin (estimated based on per capita consumption of recorded and unrecorded alcohol). Furthermore, tourist alcohol consumption also accounts for the inhabitants of a country consuming alcohol while visiting other countries (based on the average time spent outside of their country (for all people 15 years and older) and the amount of alcohol consumed in their country of origin). These estimations assume (1) that people drink the same amounts of alcohol when they are tourists as they do in their home countries, and (2) that global tourist consumption is equal to 0 (and thus tourist consumption can be either net negative or positive). In order to improve the data, countries need to record tourist flows to and from the country including the length of stay.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method: 
The following formula is used for the calculation of this indicator:
￼
Retail sales data or associated taxation data offer the most accurate estimation of recorded alcohol consumption in a defined population during a calendar year. When such data is not available, recorded alcohol consumption is estimated from data on the production and trade of alcoholic beverages. National survey data taken in isolation cannot be used for reliable estimation of the overall alcohol consumption in populations. 
The estimates of unrecorded alcohol consumption are usually based on the data generated in population-based surveys, specific empirical investigations or from expert opinions. Alternatively, the estimates can be produced by mathematical modelling using statistical associations of unrecorded alcohol consumption with other population-based indicators. Triangulation of data generated by different methods improve the validity of the estimates. 
Comments and limitations:
The estimation of unrecorded APC remains a challenge, and triangulation of data from different sources as well as Delphi techniques are used for increasing validity of estimates. During the recent years the number of research activities focused on improvement of the estimates of unrecorded alcohol consumption as well as their geographical coverage have increased substantially. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by sex, age and socioeconomic status (for example, income, education etc.).
