Indicator 3.7.1: Proportion of women of reproductive age (aged 15-49 years) who have their need for family planning satisfied with modern methods
Target 3.7: By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, including for family planning, information and education, and the integration of reproductive health into national strategies and programmes 
Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the percentage of women of reproductive age (15-49 years) who desire either to have no (additional) children or to postpone the next child and who are currently using a modern contraceptive method. 
Concepts: 
The percentage of women of reproductive age (15-49 years) who have their need for family planning satisfied with modern methods is also referred to as the proportion of demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods. The components of the indicator are contraceptive prevalence (any method and modern methods) and unmet need for family planning. 
Contraceptive prevalence is the percentage of women who are currently using, or whose sexual partner is currently using, at least one method of contraception, regardless of the method used. Unmet need for family planning is defined as the percentage of women of reproductive age, either married or in a union, who want to stop or delay childbearing but are not using any method of contraception. 
Modern contraceptive methods include sterilization, the intra-uterine device (IUD), the implant, injectables, oral contraceptive pills, condoms, vaginal barrier methods (including the diaphragm, cervical cap and spermicidal foam, jelly, cream and sponge), lactational amenorrhea method (LAM), emergency contraception and other modern methods not reported separately (e.g., the contraceptive patch or vaginal ring). traditional contraceptive methods include rhythm (e.g., fertility awareness-based methods, periodic abstinence), withdrawal and other traditional methods not reported separately. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
The proportion of demand for family planning satisfied with modern methods is useful in assessing overall levels of coverage for family planning programmes and services. Access to and use of an effective means to prevent pregnancy helps enable women and their partners to exercise their rights to decide freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children and to have the information, education and means to do so. 
Meeting demand for family planning with modern methods also contributes to maternal and child health by preventing unintended pregnancies and closely spaced pregnancies, which are at higher risk for poor obstetrical outcomes. Levels of demand for family planning satisfied with modern methods of 75 per cent or more are generally considered high, and values of 50 per cent or less are generally considered as very low.
Data Sources and Collection Method
The data used to calculate this indicator comes from nationally-representative household survey data. Multi-country survey programmes that include relevant data for this indicator are: Contraceptive Prevalence Surveys (CPS), Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), Fertility and Family Surveys (FFS), Reproductive Health Surveys (RHS), Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS), Performance Monitoring and Accountability 2020 surveys (PMA), World Fertility Surveys (WFS), other international survey programmes and national surveys.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method: 
The numerator is the percentage of women of reproductive age (15-49 years old) who are currently using, or whose sexual partner is currently using, at least one modern contraceptive method. The denominator is the total demand for family planning (the sum of contraceptive prevalence (any method) and the unmet need for family planning). Estimates are with respect to women who are married or in a union. 
The following general formula can be used to calculate the proportion of women of reproductive age (15-49 years) who have their need for family planning satisfied with modern methods (W): 
￼
Comments and limitations:
Differences in the survey design and implementation, as well as differences in the way survey questionnaires are formulated and administered can affect the comparability of the data. The most common differences relate to the range of contraceptive methods included and the characteristics (age, sex, marital or union status) of the persons for whom contraceptive prevalence is estimated (base population) and in the calculation of unmet need for family planning. 
The time frame used to assess contraceptive prevalence can also vary. In most surveys there is no definition of what is meant by “currently using” a method of contraception. In some surveys, the lack of probing questions, asked to ensure that the respondent understands the meaning of the different contraceptive methods, can result in an underestimation of contraceptive prevalence, in particular for traditional methods. 
Sampling variability can also be an issue, especially when contraceptive prevalence is measured for a specific subgroup (according to method, age-group, level of educational attainment, place of residence, etc.) or when analysing trends over time.
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
Relevant dimensions for disaggregation include: age, geographic location, marital status, socioeconomic status and other categories, depending on the data source and number of observations.
