Indicator 3.9.3: Mortality rate attributed to unintentional poisoning
Target 3.9: By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination
Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the number of deaths from unintentional poisonings in a year per 100,000 population. 
Concepts:
Unintentional poisonings refer to International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-10) codes X40, X43-X44, and X46-X49, classified as “accidental poisoning by exposure to noxious substances.” 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Measuring how the mortality rate from unintentional poisonings provides an indication of the extent of inadequate management of hazardous chemicals and pollution, and of the effectiveness of a country’s health system.
Data Sources and Collection Method
The data for this indicator comes from civil registration systems that record vital events such as births, deaths, and marriages. Civil registration records are the best source of vital statistics because they generate data on a continuous basis and for the whole country, at both national and local levels. However, such systems are often weak or incomplete in developing countries. In countries where the civil registration system lacks complete coverage, or has major deficiencies due to issues of quality and timeliness, it may be necessary, on an interim basis, to use alternative sources to generate vital statistics. Sources for such interim data include “population censuses”, “household sample surveys”, “demographic surveillance” in sentinel sites and sample registration systems. Although these sources can and do generate measures of vital events, they cannot replace civil registration, which is the only method that collects such information on a continuous basis, and the only source that can provide individuals with a legal document of a vital event. 
For more details, please see:  Improving the quality of use of birth, death and cause-of-death information available at: http://www.who.int/healthinfo/tool_cod_2010.pdf?ua=1
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method: 
Unintentional poisoning mortality rate can be calculated using the formula below: 
￼
Comments and limitations:
Data on deaths are available from countries from death registration data or sample registration systems that record information on cause of death, but less than one half of WHO member states have well-functioning death-registration systems that record causes of death. In countries that have such systems, drug and alcohol overdoses are frequently certified to ICD-10 code X49 (“other and unspecified chemicals and noxious substances”), which leads to an overestimate of the mortality rate from unintentional poisoning deaths from hazardous chemicals and pollution. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by age group, sex, subnational area, and types of poisoning.
