Indicator 3.2.1: Under-five mortality rate
Target 3.2: By 2030, end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of age, with all countries aiming to reduce neonatal mortality to at least as low as 12 per 1,000 live births and under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1,000 live births
Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
The under-five mortality rate (U5MR) is the probability (expressed as a rate per 1,000 live births) of a child born in a specified year or period dying before reaching the age of five if subject to current age-specific mortality rates. 
Concepts: 
A live birth is the complete expulsion or extraction from its mother of a product of conception, irrespective of the duration of the pregnancy, which, after such separation, breathes or shows any other evidence of life—such as beating of the heart, pulsation of the umbilical cord, or definite movement of voluntary muscles—whether or not the umbilical cord has been cut or the placenta is attached. Each product of such a birth is considered a live birth. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Mortality rates among young children are a key output indicator for child health and well-being, and, more broadly, for social and economic development. It is a closely watched public health indicator because it reflects the access of children and communities to basic health interventions such as vaccination, medical treatment of infectious diseases and adequate nutrition. 
By 2030, all countries are expected to reduce under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1,000 live births.
Data Sources and Collection Method
Vital registration systems are the preferred source of data on under-five mortality because they collect information prospectively and cover the entire population. However, many low and lower middle income countries lack fully functioning vital registration systems that accurately record all births and deaths. Thus, household surveys, such as Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) and Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS), and periodic population censuses have become the primary source of data on child mortality in low and lower middle income countries. 
National Statistical Office or the Ministry of Health are mostly involved in generating under-five mortality data at the national level.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method: 
Strictly speaking, the U5MR is not rate, since they are not calculated by dividing the number of deaths by the population at risk. Rather, the measures represent the probability of dying by a certain age derived from a life table. 
Two methods for calculating U5MR exist: the direct method and the indirect method. The direct method requires each child’s date of birth, survival status, and date or age at death. This information is typically found in vital registration systems and in household surveys that collect complete birth histories. A complete birth history records the dates of birth, and, if applicable, the dates of death of all children born to each woman that is interviewed. 
There are different direct methods of calculating under-five mortality rates. For data from vital registration systems, the calculation of U5MR can be derived from a standard period abridged life table with the number of deaths for age group <1 year (noted D0) and for the age group 1-4 (D1-4), as well as the mid-year population for the same age groups (P0 and P1-4) as inputs. Survey programmes use a synthetic cohort approach, which combines mortality probabilities for small age segments based on real cohort mortality experience into common age. 
The indirect method requires relatively little information that is available in censuses and several surveys. Only a few short, simple questions are required to collect it. This information consists of the total number of children born to each woman, the number who survive and the woman’s age (or the number of years since she first gave birth). The indirect method -often called the “Brass method”, converts the proportion of reported dead children ever born to women in age groups 15–19, 20–24,… and 45–49 into estimates of the probability of dying before attaining certain ages. The method assumes that the age of the mother can serve as a proxy for the age of her children and thus for how long the children have been exposed to the risk of dying.
For further details on the methodology please refer to: http://childmortality.org/files_v21/download/Child%20Mortality%20Estimation%20Explanatory%20Notes.pdf 
Comments and limitations:
Many countries do not have timely and reliable U5MR data but rather have differing mortality rates from different sources. Data from different sources require different calculation methods and may suffer from different errors, for example random errors in sample surveys or systematic errors due to misreporting. Recall errors are common as data are collected retrospectively. As a result, different sources often yield widely different estimates of mortality for a given time period and available data collected by countries are often inconsistent across sources. Therefore, it is important to analyse, reconcile and evaluate all data sources simultaneously for each country. The UN IGME method aims to minimize the errors for each estimate, harmonize trends over time and produce up-to-date and properly assessed estimates of under-five mortality. 
The UN Inter-agency Group for Child Mortality Estimation (UN IGME) uses a Bayesian B-splines biasadjusted model to estimate U5MR. The spline regression model is fitted to all empirical U5MR data from vital registration systems, population censuses, household surveys and sample registration systems in a country, after data quality assessment. The model generates a smooth trend curve that averages over possibly disparate estimates from the different data sources for a country and extrapolates the estimates to a target year. UN IGME generates such estimates with uncertainty bounds. The differences between the UN IGME estimates and national official estimates are usually not large if empirical data has good quality. 
For further details on the methodology please refer to:
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1309.1602.pdf
http://childmortality.org/files_v21/download/IGME%20report%202017%20child%20mortality%20final.pdf
http://childmortality.org/files_v21/download/Child%20Mortality%20Estimation%20Explanatory%20Notes.pdf
http://www.childmortality.org/ 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
Common disaggregation for mortality indicators includes disaggregation by sex, age (neonatal, infant, child), wealth quintile, residence, and mother’s education. Disaggregated data are not always available. Disaggregation by geographic location is usually at regional level, or the minimum provincial level for survey or census data. Data from well-functioning vital registration systems can provide further geographical breakdowns.
