Indicator 3.b.2: Total net official development assistance to the medical research and basic health sectors 
Target 3.b: Support the research and development of vaccines and medicines for the communicable and non-communicable diseases that primarily affect developing countries, provide access to affordable essential medicines and vaccines, in accordance with the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health, which affirms the right of developing countries to use to the full the provisions in the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights regarding flexibilities to protect public health, and, in particular, provide access to medicines for all
Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the total amount of gross disbursements of official development assistance (ODA) from all donors to medical research and basic health sectors. 
Concepts:
ODA is defined as those flows to countries and territories on the Development Assistance Committee’s (DAC) list of ODA recipients and to multilateral institutions which are
(1)    Provided by official agencies, including state and local governments, or by the executive agencies; and
(2)    Each transaction:
	1.	is administered with the promotion of the economic development and welfare of developing countries as its main objective; and
	2.	is concessional in character and conveys a grant element of at least 25% (calculated at a rate of discount of 10%). 
ODA for Medical research and basic health sectors i is calculated as the sum of all activities in the OECD’s Creditor Reporting System (CRS) using codes in the 122 series (basic health) and CRS code 12182 (medical research). 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Monitoring the total ODA flows to developing countries helps quantify the public effort that donors provide to developing countries for medical research and basic health. 
Data Sources and Collection Method
The data are reported by donors according to the methodology outlined by OECD’s development finance standards. 
A statistical reporter is responsible for the collection of DAC statistics in each providing country/agency. This reporter is usually located in the national aid agency, Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Finance etc
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
This indicator is calculated as the sum of all ODA flows from all donors to developing countries in the CRS for medical research and basic health, as reported by the donor countries. 
Comments and limitations:
Data in the Creditor Reporting System are available from 1973. However, the data coverage is considered complete from 1995 for commitments at an activity level and 2002 for disbursements. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
The data are available at an activity level and can therefore be disaggregated by donor, recipient, type of flow, type of aid, sector etc.  The sector level data can also be broken down into more granular levels (see http://www.oecd.org/dac/financing-sustainable-development/development-finance-standards/purposecodessectorclassification.htm)
