Indicator 10.a.1: Proportion of tariff lines applied to imports from least developed countries and developing countries with zero-tariff
Target 10.a: Implement the principle of special and differential treatment for developing countries, in particular least developed countries, in accordance with World Trade Organization agreements
Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the percentage of tariff lines that correspond to a 0% tariff rate on products imported from least developed and developing countries. 
Concepts:
Tariff line or National Tariff lines (NTL) code are classification codes that are applied to merchandise goods that are imported/exported. They follow the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding Systems (HS). Countries can customize the HS code to their needs by adding additional digits (separated by a decimal) after the six digits of the HS. For example, 010120.10 is the US national tariff line for live purebred breeding asses.
The country groups used refer to the Standard country or area codes for statistical use (M49) adopted by UNSD
 https://unstats.un.org/unsd/methodology/m49/.
Rationale and Interpretation:
This indicator measures the extent of differential treatment for developing and least developed countries (LDC) that have been implemented, by observing the level of free access they have to international markets. Over time, this indicator will show progress on the phasing out of tariff rates on goods coming from developing countries and LDCs. 
Data Sources and Collection Method
Tariff data for the calculation of this indicator are retrieved from the International Trade Centre (ITC), UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), and the World Trade Organization (WTO) databases. Data at tariff line level are collected directly from the national statistical offices, permanent missions of countries to the UN, regional organizations or focal points within the customs or ministries in charge of customs revenues (e.g. ministry of economy or finance etc.).
Trade data used to establish whether trade is occurring at the tariff line level are retrieved from the consultation of data provided through the following trade databases: ITC Trade Map (www.trademap.org), WTO IDB and UNSD COMTRADE.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
The calculation of this indicator is a straightforward ratio of the total number of products imported that can benefit duty free imports from developing countries or least developed countries and the total number of products imported from developing countries or least developed countries. The number of products is represented by the number of tariff lines. The indicator is calculated excluding arms and oil. The percentage of tariff lines that correspond to a 0% tariff rate on products imported from least developed and developing countries (Pzero) is then calculated as:
￼
Comments and limitations:
Tariff-based measures of differential treatment are not accurate, but better measures are unavailable. These are only part of the trade limitation factors, especially when looking at exports of developing or least developed countries under non-reciprocal preferential treatment that set criteria for eligibility. 
Preferential treatment may not be used by exporters from developing and LDC for reasons such as the inability to meet eligibility criteria (i.e. complying with rules of origin). As there is no accurate statistical information on the extent of the actual utilization of these benefits, it is assumed that they are fully utilized. 
Duty free treatment is an indicator of market access, but is not always synonymous with preferential treatment for beneficiary countries. This is because the Most Favored Nations (MFN) tariffs are already at near zero levels, especially for fuels and minerals, and IT products. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators:
(alternative) Proportion of import values from developing countries and from LDCs, admitted free of duty. A similar indicator was calculated for the MDGs (indicator 8.6) but is not currently calculated for the SDG process. In this case, the value of imports that can access duty free is calculated instead of counting the number of tariff lines that can be imported duty free.
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by product sector, geographical locations and country income level. 
