Indicator 2.2.2: Prevalence of malnutrition (weight for height >+2 or <-2 standard deviation from the median of the WHO Child Growth Standards) among children under 5 years of age, by type (wasting and overweight)
Target 2.2: By 2030, end all forms of malnutrition, including achieving, by 2025, the internationally agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under 5 years of age, and address the nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating women and older persons
Goal 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture
Definition and Rationale
Definition: 
The indicator consists of two parts, wasting and overweight: 
	1.	Wasting is the percentage of children aged 0–59 months, whose weight-for-length or height values are below minus two standard deviations from the WHO Child Growth Standards median. 
	2.	Overweight is the percentage of children aged 0–59 months, whose weight-for-length or height values are above two standard deviations from the WHO Child Growth Standards median. 
Concepts:
For the purposes of this indicator, wasting refers to a situation where a child under 5 years of age is too thin for his or her height,  due to rapid weight loss or the failure to gain weight. A child who is wasted has an increased risk of death, but treatment is possible. 
For the purposes of this indicator, overweight  refers to a child who is too heavy for his or her height. This form of malnutrition results from expending too few calories for food consumed and increases the risk of noncommunicable diseases later in life. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Wasting is a major health problem and, owing to its associated risks for morbidity, requires urgent attention from policy-makers and programme implementers alike. This indicator has been linked to poverty, low levels of education, and poor access to health services. Addressing wasting is of critical importance because of the heightened risk of disease and death for children who lose too much of their body weight. 
Overweight and obese children are likely to stay obese into adulthood and more likely to develop noncommunicable diseases like diabetes and cardiovascular diseases at a younger age. Overweight and obesity, as well as their related diseases, are largely preventable. 
Under-five wasting is an internationally accepted outcome reflecting extreme child undernourishment and was also a part of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). On the other end of the spectrum, obesity in children is another rising epidemic which occurs due to over-nourishment and consumption of unbalanced and unhealthy foods and is also linked to physical inactivity. Being overweight also impacts cognitive function and impedes individuals’ ability to lead productive lives.
Childhood wasting and overweight are both part of the nutrition global target indicators endorsed by the World Health Assembly.    The targets for wasting are to reduce the percentage of children wasted to <5% by 2025 and to <3% (very low level) by 2030; the targets for overweight are to have no increase in the percentage of children overweight from the 2012 baseline in 2025, and to reduce the percentage of children overweight to <3% (very low level).
Data Sources and Collection Method
For most of the countries, nationally representative nutritional (household) surveys collect information on height (or length) and weight data. For a limited number of countries, data from surveillance/early-warning systems that are in place to continuously collect, analyse and interpret health-related data, are used if sufficient population coverage is documented (about 80%). For both data sources, the child’s height and weight measurements must be collected following recommended standard measuring techniques (WHO 2008). This data are generally collected by the ministries of health, national offices of statistics or national institutes of nutrition. 
Internationally, there are also several other survey programmes that provide anthropometric data, including the Multiple-Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS) supported by UNICEF, the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) funded by United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Pan-Arab Project for Child Development (PAPCHILD) surveys funded by the Pan-Arab League and UNFPA, the Living Standards Measurement Studies (LSMS), funded by the World Bank, and National Nutrition Surveys based on Standardized Monitoring and Assessment of Relief and Transition  (SMART) methods. 
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
The indicator can be calculated as a simple percentage for the various types of malnutrition, as follows:
 ￼
where Cwasting is the number of children under the age of 5 years who are wasted (i.e. weight-for-length/height is below minus two SD from the WHO Child Growth Standards median); Coverweight is the number of children under the age of 5 years who are overweight (i.e. weight-for-length/height is above plus two SD from the WHO Child Growth Standards median); and
CTotal is the total number of children under the age of 5 years measured for both weight and height. 
The WHO child growth standards that provide reference median information for this indicator can be found at: http://www.who.int/childgrowth/standards/weight_for_age/en/ 
Comments and limitations:
Survey estimates come with levels of uncertainty due to both sampling error and non-sampling error (e.g. measurement technical error, recording error etc.). While sampling errors are available for the a large number of country surveys in the database, none of the two sources of errors have been fully considered for deriving estimates at regional and global levels. Surveys are carried out in a specific period of the year, usually over a few months. However, the wasting indicator can be affected by seasonality, factors related to food availability (e.g. pre-harvest periods), disease (e.g. rainy season and diarrhoea, malaria, etc.), and natural disasters and conflicts. Hence, country-year estimates may not necessarily be comparable over time. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
Prevalence of both wasting and overweight in children less than 5 years of age should be presented for the total sample and disaggregated by age, sex, area of residence, region, socioeconomic status and mothers’ education.
