Indicator 2.5.2: Proportion of local breeds classified as being at risk, not-at-risk or at unknown level of risk of extinction
Target 2.5: By 2020, maintain the genetic diversity of seeds, cultivated plants and farmed and domesticated animals and their related wild species, including through soundly managed and diversified seed and plant banks at the national, regional and international levels, and promote access to and fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, as internationally agreed
Goal 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
The indicator presents the percentage of local livestock breeds classified as being at risk, not at risk or at unknown level of risk of extinctions at a certain moment in time. 
Concepts:
Breed referes to either a subspecific group of domestic livestock with definable and identifiable external characteristics that enable it to be separated by visual appraisal from other similarly defined groups within the same species, or a group for which geographical and or cultural separation from phenotypically separate groups has led to acceptance of  its separate identity and/or a group for which geographical and/or cultural separation from phenotypically similar groups has led to acceptance of its separate identity. For the purposes of the guidelines, a breed is a subspecific group of domestic livestock with a common history whose members are treated in a common manner with respect to genetic management. 
At-risk breed  refers to breeds with demographic characteristics (primarily population census size) suggesting that it will fail to exist in the future unless a conservation programme is implemented. Breed risk status is a complex issue, first because numerous factors are involved, but also because all the information needed to estimate the parameters necessary for predicting risk status is rarely available. 
Following criteria determine the level of risk for a local breed:
(1)    Extinct: a breed is categorized as extinct when there are no breeding males or breeding females remaining. Nevertheless, genetic material might have been cryo-conserved which would allow recreation of the breed.
(2)    Critical: a breed is categorized as critical if the total number of breeding females is less than or equal to 100 or the total number of breeding males is less than or equal to five; or the overall population size is less than or equal to 120 and decreasing and the percentage of females being bred to males of the same breed is below 80 percent, and it is not classified as extinct.
(3)    Critical-maintained: are those critical populations for which active conservation programmes are in place or populations are maintained by commercial companies or research institutions.
(4)    Endangered: a breed is categorized as endangered if the total number of breeding females is greater than 100 and less than or equal to 1000 or the total number of breeding males is less than or equal to 20 and greater than five; or the overall population size is greater than 80 and less than 100 and increasing and the percentage of females being bred to males of the same breed is above 80 percent; or the overall population size is greater than 1 000 and less than or equal to 1 200 and decreasing and the percentage of females being bred to males of the same breed is below 80 percent, and it is not assigned to any of above categories.
(5)    Endangered-maintained: are those endangered populations for which active conservation programmes are in place or populations are maintained by commercial companies or research institutions.
(6)    Vulnerable. A breed is categorized as vulnerable if:
	◦	the total number of breeding females is between 1 000 and 2 000 (3 000 and 6 000 for species with low reproductive capacity); or
	◦	the overall population size is greater than 800 (2 400) and less than or equal to 1 600 (4 800) and increasing and the percentage of females being bred to males of the same breed is greater than 80 percent; or
	◦	the overall population size is greater than 1 200 (3 600) and less than or equal to 2 400 (7 200) but stable or decreasing; or
	◦	the total number of breeding males is between 20 and 35 (i.e. the ΔF is between 0.5 and 1 percent).
Unreported population trends are assumed to be stable.
(7)    Not at risk. A breed is categorized as not at risk if the population status is known and the breed does not fall in the critical or endangered categories (including the respective subcategories) or the vulnerable category. In addition, a breed can be considered not at risk even if the precise population size is not known, as long as existing knowledge is sufficient
to provide certainty that the population size exceeds the respective thresholds for the vulnerable category. To allow more such breeds to be correctly assigned to the not at risk category (i.e. rather than classified as unknown), countries are encouraged to insert estimated population sizes into DAD-IS if data from a formal census are not available. Nevertheless,
for such breeds the implementation of a survey to obtain a more precise estimate of population size is strongly recommended (FAO, 2011b).
(8)    Unknown. This category is self-explanatory and calls for action. A population survey is needed; the breed could be critical, endangered or vulnerable.
(9)    At risk: all breeds falling under categories 2 to 6 
A detailed definition on risk classification is provided in
FAO. 2013. In vivo conservation of animal genetic resources.
FAO Animal Production and Health Guidelines. No. 14. Rome. Accessible at  http://www.fao.org/docrep/018/i3327e/i3327e.pdf 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Animal genetic resources for food and agriculture are an essential part of the biological basis for world food security, and contribute to the livelihoods of over a billion people. A diverse resource base is critical for human survival and well-being, and a contribution to the eradication of hunger and malnutrition. 
In addition, the indicator has a direct link to “biodiversity” as animal or livestock genetic resources represent an integral part of agricultural ecosystems and biodiversity as such. 
Data Sources and Collection Method
The data that supports the calculations for this indicator can be collected from national livestock censuses on breed level or data derived from national herdbooks or national surveys. Updating of population size data at least every 10 years is needed for the definition of the risk classes.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
Local breeds are to be classified using information available through agricultural livestock data collection systems. Based on the population size and sex ratios of livestock for each breed, it is to be determined whether they are at risk, not-at-risk or unknown level of risk using the aforementioned criteria. 
Once all breeds have been classified, the indicator(s) can be calculated using the following formulas:
￼
Comments and limitations:
Breed-related information remains far from complete. For almost 60 percent of all reported breeds, risk status is not known because of missing population data or lack of recent updates. Generally, data collection should be possible in all countries.
The main limitation is the availability of livestock census on breed level. The guidelines on Surveying and Monitoring give an overview on methods to estimate population sizes if no census data are available.
See  http://www.fao.org/docrep/014/ba0055e/ba0055e00.htm. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
The data can be disaggregated by geography, species, and between mammalian and avian species.
