Indicator 2.a.2: Total official flows (official development assistance plus other official flows) to the agriculture sector
Target 2.a: Increase investment, including through enhanced international cooperation, in rural infrastructure, agricultural research and extension services, technology development and plant and livestock gene banks in order to enhance agricultural productive capacity in developing countries, in particular least developed countries
Goal 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
Total official flows are the gross disbursements of total Official Development Assistance (ODA) and other official flows from all donors to the agriculture sector. 
Concepts:
Official Development Assistance (ODA) is defined by OECD’s Development Assistance Committee (DAC) as those flows to countries and territories on the DAC list of ODA recipients and to multilateral institutions which are:
(1)    Provided by official agencies, including state and local governments, or by their executive agencies; and
(2)    Each transaction if which:
(a) is administered with the promotion of the economic development and welfare of developing countries as its main objective; and
(b) is concessional in character and conveys a grant element of at least 25 percent (calculated at a rate of discount of 10 percent). 
Other Official Flows (OOF) are defined as transactions by the official sector which do not meet the conditions for eligibility as ODA, either because they are not primarily aimed at development, or because they are not sufficiently concessional. They also exclude officially supported export credits. 
The agriculture sector is as defined by the DAC and comprises all Creditor Reporting System’s (CRS) codes in the 311, 312 and 313 series (agriculture, forestry and fishing). 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Total ODA and OOF to developing countries quantify the public effort (excluding export credits) that donors provide to developing countries for agriculture.
Data Sources and Collection Method
Donors have been reporting data to OECD’s CRS since 1973 with information on type of finance, type of aid, type of flow etc. In addition, such data on ODA can also be acquired from national administrations, national aid agency, ministry of foreign affairs or ministry of finances, from their annual statistical reports.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
This indicator is calculated, using the data reported to the OECD’s Creditor Reporting System (CRS), as the sum of all ODA and OOF from all donors to developing countries in the agriculture sector. 
Comments and limitations:
Data in the Creditor Reporting System are available from 1973. However, the data coverage is considered complete since 1995 for commitments at an activity level and 2002 for disbursements. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
The data are available at an activity level and can therefore be disaggregated by donor, recipient, type of flow, type of aid, sector etc.  The sector level data can also be broken down into more granular levels (see http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/documentupload/CRS_BI_VOLUNTARY_purpose_codes2016flows_en_July17.pdf)
