Indicator 2.2.1: Prevalence of stunting (height for age <-2 standard deviation from the median of the World Health Organization (WHO) Child Growth Standards) among children under 5 years of age
Target 2.2: By 2030, end all forms of malnutrition, including achieving, by 2025, the internationally agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under 5 years of age, and address the nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating women and older persons
Goal 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the percentage of children aged 0–59 months, whose length or height-for-age values are below minus two standard deviations from the WHO Child Growth Standards median.  
Concepts:
Stunting refers to a situation where a child is too short for his or her age due to the result of chronic or recurrent malnutrition.  Also known as linear growth retardation, it is a condition that occurs mainly in the first 2 years of life and that is largely irreversible. WHO Child Growth Standards provide reference median information for this indicator  (http://www.who.int/childgrowth/en/). 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Child growth is an internationally accepted outcome reflecting child nutritional status. Given stunting’s association with morbidity and mortality risk, non-communicable diseases in later life, and learning capacity and productivity, it can lead to a negative impact on country’s development. Child stunting is one of the nutrition global target indicators endorsed by the World Health Assembly.  The targets for stunting are to reduce the number of children stunted by 40% (by 2025) and by 50% (by 2030), from the 2012 baseline.
Data Sources and Collection Method
For most of the countries, nationally representative nutritional (household) surveys collect information on height (or length)- for-age data. For a limited number of countries data from surveillance/early-warning systems that are in place to continuously collect, analyse and interpret health-related data, are used if sufficient population coverage is documented (about 80%). For both data sources, the child’s height measurements must be collected following recommended standard measuring techniques (WHO 2008). For accurate child linear growth assessment, the complete date of birth should be available. These data are generally collected by the ministries of health, national offices of statistics or national institutes of nutrition. 
Internationally, there are also several other survey programmes that provide anthropometric data, including the Multiple-Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS) supported by UNICEF, the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) funded by United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Pan-Arab Project for Child Development (PAPCHILD) surveys funded by the Pan-Arab League and UNFPA, the Living Standards Measurement Studies (LSMS) , funded by the World Bank, and National Nutrition Surveys based on Standardized Monitoring and Assessment of Relief and Transition (SMART) methods
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
The indicator can be calculated as a simple percentage, as follows:
 ￼
Where,
CS is the number of children under the age of 5 years who are stunted (i.e. length or height-for-age is more than two SD below the WHO Child Growth Standards median); and
CT is the total number of children under the age of 5 years measured. 
The WHO Child Growth Standards can be found at: http://www.who.int/childgrowth/standards/height_for_age/en/ 
Comments and limitations:
Survey estimates come with levels of uncertainty due to both sampling and non-sampling error (e.g. measurement technical error, recording error etc.). While sampling errors are available for the a large number of country surveys, in the database, none of the two sources of errors have been fully considered for deriving estimates at regional and global levels. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
Prevalence of stunting in children less than 5 years of age should be presented for the total sample and disaggregated by age, sex, type of residence, region, socioeconomic status and mothers’ education.
