Indicator 16.2.3: Proportion of young women and men aged 18-29 years who experienced sexual violence by age 18
Target 16.2: End abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms of violence against and torture of children 
Goal 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the percentage of young women and men (aged 18-29 years) who experienced sexual violence by the age of 18. This indicator is always reported on separately for women and men. 
Concepts:
According to General Comment no. 13 on the Convention of the Rights of the Child (CRC), sexual violence against children comprises any sexual activities imposed by an adult on a child against which the child is entitled to protection by criminal law. This includes:
(1) The inducement or coercion of a child to engage in any unlawful or psychologically harmful sexual activity;
(2) The use of children in commercial sexual exploitation;
(3) The use of children in audio or visual images of child sexual abuse; and
(4) Child prostitution, sexual slavery, sexual exploitation in travel and tourism, trafficking for purposes of sexual exploitation (within and between countries), sale of children for sexual purposes and forced marriage. 
Sexual activities are also considered as abuse when committed against a child by another child if the offender is significantly older than the victim or uses power, threat or other means of pressure. Consensual sexual activities between children are not considered as sexual abuse if the children are older than the age limit defined by the State Party. 
‘Sexual violence’ is operationally defined in the indicator as sexual intercourse or any other sexual acts that were forced, physically or in any other way. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Experiences of sexual violence in childhood hinder all aspects of development: physical, psychological/emotional and social. Apart from the physical injuries that can result, researchers have consistently found that the sexual abuse of children is associated with a wide array of mental health consequences and adverse behavioural outcomes in adulthood. The issue is universally relevant, and the indicator captures one of the gravest forms of violence against children. The right of children to protection from all forms of violence is outlined in the CRC and its Optional Protocols.
Data Sources and Collection Method
Data for this indicator is collected through nationally representative household surveys that include a module on violence against children or violence against women and men which are conducted by national statistical offices. Internationally coordinated household surveys such as the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) also collect this data in low and middle-income countries. 
It is crucial that fundamental principles are followed for the ethical collection of sound data when conducting research on violence. Key considerations include ensuring that questions are asked in a sufficiently sensitive manner; securing informed consent; protecting respondents from unnecessary danger or risk of re-traumatization; maintaining confidentiality; and instituting clear procedures for providing follow-up support for respondents. UNICEF is currently developing a set of methodological and ethical guidelines for the collection of data on violence against children. 
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
The percentage of young men and women (aged 18-29 years) who experienced sexual violence by the age of 18 (P­CSV) can be calculated as: 
￼
where,
NCSV is the number of young women and men (aged 18-29 years) who report having experienced any sexual violence by age 18; and
Ntotal is the total number of young women and men aged 18-29 years. 
Comments and limitations:
Comparability of data for this indicator remains a challenge due to different study methodologies and designs, definitions of sexual violence, and sampling frames and questionnaires. 
Another challenge is the underreporting of experiences of sexual violence in childhood, especially when it comes to reporting on experiences of sexual violence among boys and men. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by sex, age, income, place of residence (rural/urban), geographic location, marital status and education. 
