Indicator 14.4.1: Proportion of fish stocks within biologically sustainable levels
Target 14.4: By 2020, effectively regulate harvesting and end overfishing, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and destructive fishing practices and implement science-based management plans, in order to restore fish stocks in the shortest time feasible, at least to levels that can produce maximum sustainable yield as determined by their biological characteristics
Goal 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the proportion of fish stocks or species that are exploited within the level of Maximum Sustainable Yield (MSY). 
This indicator is currently reported at the regional and global level. 
Concepts: 
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has divided the world oceans into 21 statistical areas, and stock assessment is carried out based on these statistical areas. In total, 584 fish stocks and species have been monitored since 1974, with stock assessment information on 441 stock or species. The stock assessment classifies fish stocks into 3 categories: non-fully exploited, fully exploited, and overexploited. The stocks within biologically sustainable levels are those classified as non-fully exploited and fully exploited.  The Maximum Sustainable Yield (MSY) is the largest yield (or catch) that can be taken from a fish stock over an indefinite period. The aim of this threshold yield is to achieve the maximum productivity of fish resources while maintaining biodiversity and proper functioning of the relevant ecosystems for present and future generations.   When fishing drives down the biomass of a fish stock below the level at which an MSY can be produced, the stock is said to be overexploited. In contrast, the stock is non-fully exploited if its biomass is above the level corresponding to MSY. When population size is maintained at or close to the level that produces MSY, the species is said to be fully exploited, allowing the population to continue to be productive indefinitely. Sustainable fishery management aims to control fishing pressure so that the stock is maintained at the most productive level.   The biomass of a fish stock is the quantity, usually by weight, of a stock at a given time. Whether a fish stock or species is overexploited is judged based on the estimate of current stock biomass relative to its virgin stock level. This information can only be obtained through stock assessment, although some alternative methods haven recently been developed for the use in fisheries that have no adequate data available. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
This indicator provides a means of monitoring progress and changes in the exploitation and management of global fishery resources as a direct measure of sustainability. It is an important reference for policy formulation and decision making related to sustainable management of fishery resources.   The United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, the United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement, the Plan of Implementation of the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development, the strategic goal of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in 2010, among others, all refer to the MSY-based reference points and targets. Many countries, including Australia, New Zealand and the United States, and the European Union set their management targets based on MSY.  The indicator is currently estimated at regional and global levels due to data limits and other issues, the principles and methodologies behind the assessment are equally applicable at national level. Countries that have sufficient data and capacity should endeavour to estimate this indicator because it directly measures fish resources’ sustainability that is the most fundamental information for national policy and management strategy specific to fish stocks and fishing areas relevant to each country.
Data Sources and Collection Method
All United Nations member countries are asked to report their annual landings by fish species or species group to FAO. The Handbook of Fishery Statistical Standards provides comprehensive definitions of concepts and details of standard classifications applied by the international agencies. The Handbook does not attempt to include details of national systems, many of which were developed for specific national purposes and thus differ from systems used internationally. Nevertheless, authorities considering introducing or revising national statistical systems are encouraged to ensure that the system developed incorporates a high degree of compatibility with the international standards described in the Handbook.   To ensure data quality, each collection is documented to highlight definitions and to specify the structure, sources, coverage, processes, intended use, etc.   Formal stock assessment requires time series of both catch and effort data, together with other biological parameters. Catch means biomass of a fish species that was caught or landed. Fishing effort is a measure of fishing intensity, usually measured as the number of fishing vessels multiplied by time spent fishing. Although FAO collects statistics on the numbers of fishermen and fishing vessels in different categories, no fishing effort data have been collected.   The FAO database covers only official statistics provided by member countries. Regional scientific committees and management bodies are other important sources of fisheries data. However, their significance in data collection varies from commission to commission. For example, a number of tuna commissions have their own data collection system.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
This indicator is calculated as the number of fish species with a stock assessment of non-fully exploited or fully exploited divided by the total number of fish species with a stock assessment and multiplied by 100. 
Comments and limitations:
The derivation of this indicator is not only data demanding, but also technically intensive as stock assessment is a numerical modelling of fish population dynamics based on time series data of catch and fishing effort as well as other biological parameters and fishery independent data. This is the reason why many countries do not have sufficient data and capacity to produce this indicator. 
The proportion is calculated based on stock numbers, without weighting either by its production volume or stock abundance. This means that every fish stock is considered of the same importance. 
Data quality varies from country to country. In some countries, there is no specific system or network for collecting statistical data on fish catches and other fishery data. Fishery landings data are often reported by national governments in aggregated form rather than by fish species. Many fish stocks do not have adequate data to support formal stock assessment. In such cases FAO evaluates their stock status using simple ad hoc methods that are less data-demanding, but this introduces greater uncertainty. Fishing has a major influence on the abundance of fish populations. However, it is widely recognised that other factors, such as environmental changes, coastal development, climatic change, predator-prey interaction and habitat modification also play an important role. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
At the international level, the indicator can be calculated separately for each FAO statistical area as well as being presented globally. In addition, for specific fish species or groups it is useful to show the degree of exploitation, as an aid to determining policy on which species need particular attention.
