Indicator 1.1.1: Proportion of population below the international poverty line, by sex, age, employment status and geographical location (urban/rural)
Target 1.1: By 2030, eradicate extreme poverty for all people everywhere, currently measured as people living on less than $1.25 a day[1].
Goal 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere

[1] The International Poverty Line was updated to $1.90 per day in October 2015.
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
The indicator is defined as the proportion of the population living in households below the international poverty line where the average daily consumption (or income) per person is less than $1.9 a day measured at 2011 international prices adjusted for purchasing power parity (PPP) . 
Concepts:
The international poverty line is a threshold used to measure extreme poverty based on consumption or income levels. A person is considered extremely poor if his or her consumption or income level falls below the minimum level necessary to meet basic needs. For this indicator, the line is set at $1.90 (2011 PPP). It replaces the $1.25 a day poverty line measured in 2005 prices since October 2015. 
The purchasing power parity (PPP) conversion factor is the number of units of a country's currency required to buy the same amounts of goods and services in the domestic market as one United States dollar would buy in the United States. It is based on the System of National Accounts’ concept of actual individual consumption. 
The proportion of the population living below the poverty line is also known as the poverty headcount index (or incidence of poverty or poverty rate). 
Households in poverty are those households whose disposable income or consumption expenditure is below the poverty line taking into account the number of household members and composition (e.g., number of adults and children). 
Rationale and Interpretation:
The $1.90 a day poverty line or the critical threshold value, below which an individual is determined to be extremely poor, allows for comparing and aggregating progress across countries in reducing the number of people living under extreme poverty and for monitoring trends at the global level. In addition, poverty measures based on an international poverty line attempt to hold the real value of the poverty line constant over time allowing for accurate assessments of progress toward meeting the goal of eradicating extreme poverty and hunger. 
Data Sources and Collection Method
The indicator is produced globally using micro-level data on household income or consumption expenditures from nationally representative household surveys, which is reported to the World Bank’s development research group and/or the ILO (for working poverty). Only nationally representative surveys that contain sufficient information to produce a comprehensive consumption or income aggregate (including consumption or income from own production) and allow for the construction of a correctly weighted distribution of per capita consumption or income are used. 
Examples of surveys include household income and expenditure surveys (HIES), living standards measurement surveys (LSMS) with employment modules, or labour force surveys (LFS) that collect information on household income. Such surveys also offer the benefit of allowing the employment status and income (or consumption expenditure) variables to be derived from the same sampled households ideally for the same long observation period.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
The formula for calculating this indicator is as follows: 
￼ 
where P0 represents the headcount index, I() is an indicator function that takes on the value 1 if the bracketed expression is true, and 0 otherwise. If individual consumption or income (yi) is less than the international poverty line (z), then I() is equal to 1 and the individual is counted as poor. Np is the total number of the poor and N is the total population. 
The current extreme poverty line is set at $1.90 a day in 2011 PPP terms. The international poverty line maintains the same standard for extreme poverty - the poverty line typical of the poorest countries in the world - but updates it using the latest information on the cost of living. 
The percentage of population living below the international poverty line is calculated using either consumption or income data, gathered from nationally representative household surveys. Consumption is preferred to income for measuring poverty, because income is more difficult to measure accurately and can vary over time even if the standard of living does not. However, in practice the two methods yield similar results. 
Consumption, including consumption from own production (or income when consumption is unavailable), is calculated for the entire household and then divided by the number of persons living in the household to derive a per capita measure.  Households are then ranked by either consumption (or income) per person and compared to the poverty line to determine the numbers of people living above and below the poverty line.
 The sample distributions of poor people are weighted by household size and sample expansion factors so that they are representative of the population of each country. This generates an estimate of the number of people living in households with levels of per capita consumption or income below the poverty line. The total number below the poverty line is divided by the total population to estimate the proportion of the population that is extremely poor. This number is multiplied by 100 to derive a percentage. 
Comments and limitations:
In making international comparisons of poverty estimates, there are conceptual and practical problems to address. Potential problems include the following:
	•	Internationally comparable lines are useful for producing global aggregates of poverty. However, such a universal line is generally not suitable for the analysis of poverty within a country. For that purpose, a country-specific poverty line needs to be constructed that reflects the country’s economic and social circumstances, and adjusted for different locations such as rural and urban areas.
	•	The reliability of poverty estimates using the international poverty line is significantly influenced by the underlying PPP data, national consumer price indices and their production timelines. Therefore, comparison across contries may not be accurate in terms of needs deprivation.
	•	Differences in the relative importance of consumption of non-market goods may affect poverty rate estimates. The local market value of all consumption in kind (including own production) should be included in total consumption expenditure. Similarly, imputed profit from the production of non-market goods should be included in income.
	•	This indicator measures poverty based on household per capita income/consumption, ignoring intra-household inequality in the distribution of resources, and does not take into account other dimensions of poverty such as vulnerability, people’s feeling about relative deprivation and lack of voice and power of the poor. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
The preferred household surveys should contain variables that can identify both the poverty status of households and give information on the economic activity of the household’s members, which would allow further disaggregation of this indicator by sex, age, employment status and geographic location (urban/rural). 
Disaggregation by Employment
The working poor are employed persons living in households that are classified as poor, that is, that have income (or consumption) per capita levels below the poverty line used for measurement. 
The proportion of the working poor is calculated by dividing the number of employed persons living in households below the international poverty line (disaggregated by sex, age and geographical location) by the total number of employed persons (disaggregated by sex, age and geographical location).
