Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere
While extreme poverty has been reduced considerably in the past decades, there are pockets of the world where it still stubbornly persists. Detailed analyses reveal that certain groups are much more affected by poverty. Ending poverty requires universal social protection systems aimed at protecting all people throughout their life cycle and targeted measures to reduce vulnerability to disasters and address specific geographical areas within a country.Poverty measured at the international poverty line, currently set at $1.90 at 2011 purchasing power parities, has fallen rapidly in recent decades and in 2013 was a third of the 1990 value. The latest global estimate suggests that 10.9 per cent, or 783 million people, lived below this threshold in 2013. More than half of the worlds extreme poor live in sub-Saharan Africa, while about one third live in Southern Asia.The proportion of the worlds workers living with their families on less than $1.90 per person per day has declined significantly over the past two decades, falling from 26.9 per cent in 2000 to 9.2 per cent in 2017, with reductions seen in all regions of the world. Nevertheless, it continues to affect young workers disproportionately, with the global youth working poverty rate consistently over 6 percentage points higher than the adult rate. Despite significant progress in extending social protection in many parts of the world, the human right to social security is not yet a reality for a majority of the worlds population. According to 2016 estimates, only 45 per cent of the worlds population was effectively covered by at least one social protection cash benefit, which means that 4 billion people are left unprotected. On the positive side, 68 per cent of people above retirement age received a pension.However, data also show a global deficit of social protection for other groups: only 22 per cent of the unemployed receive unemployment cash benefits, 28 per cent of persons with severe disabilities receive disability cash benefits, 35 per cent of children worldwide enjoy effective access to social protection and 41 per cent of women giving birth receive maternity cash benefits. Disasters have often hindered economic and social development and aggravated the depth and breadth of poverty. Despite efforts in improving measures for disaster risk reduction, in 2017, economic losses attributed to disasters were estimated at over $300 billion, among the highest losses in recent years, owing to three major hurricanes affecting the United States of America and the Caribbean.According to data from 2011 to 2016 from 151 countries, only 30 per cent spend from 15 per cent to 20 per cent of total government expenditure on education, as recommended in the Education 2030 Framework for Action.

