Indicator 15.6.1: Number of countries that have adopted legislative, administrative and policy frameworks to ensure fair and equitable sharing of benefits
Target 15.6: Promote fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources and promote appropriate access to such resources, as internationally agreed
Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the number of countries that have adopted legislative, administrative and policy frameworks for the implementation of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization to the Convention on Biological Diversity (2010). 
This indicator is an international indicator and not monitored at the national level. 
Concepts:
The Nagoya Protocol, also referred to the Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit Sharing (ABS) is a 2010 supplementary agreement to the 1992 Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) that aims to implement the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources, thereby contributing to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
In order for the Nagoya Protocol to be operational, certain enabling conditions are required to be met at the national level. Each party to the protocol is required to implement a set of legislative, administrative and policy frameworks (as appropriate) and report it to the ABS Clearing-House platform, as per Article 14 of the protocol. This indicator is a measure of progress on the number of party that have adopted said frameworks. 
Data Sources and Collection Method
The data for this indicator comes from the ABS Clearing-House, which is maintained by the CBD secretariat. Countries provide the information on ABS legislative, administrative and policy frameworks to the ABS Clearing-House directly by filling a form containing information and details about their frameworks.  
In order to ensure the accuracy of the information published in the ABS Clearing-House, all ABS frameworks are submitted to the clearing house by designated publishing authorities (a single authority for each country)
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
This indicator is calculated as the sum of the number of parties to the CBD who have submitted ABS legislative, administrative or policy measures to the ABS Clearing-House. 
Comments and limitations:
This indicator can be used to measure progress in adopting ABS legislative, administrative and policy frameworks over time. However, it does not assess the scope or effectiveness of ABS legislative, administrative and policy frameworks. 
The notion of framework suggests that there is a complete set of rules established on access and benefit sharing. However, it is difficult to have a predefined idea of what constitutes an ABS framework. In the context of this indicator, the publication by a country of one or more ABS legislative, administrative and policy measure in the ABS Clearing-House would be considered progress by that country on having an ABS legislative, administrative and policy framework. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
Data are provided by countries (or regional integration entities), and can be disaggregated by country, regional group, membership to a specific regional organization, and/or by their status as Parties or non-parties to the protocol.
