Indicator 15.b.1: Official development assistance and public expenditure on conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and ecosystems
Target 15.a: Mobilize and significantly increase financial resources from all sources to conserve and sustainably use biodiversity and ecosystems
Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as gross disbursements of total Official Development Assistance (ODA) from all donors for biodiversity. This chapter of the e-handbook only covers the ODA part of the indicator. 
Concepts:
The Development Assistance Committee (DAC) defines ODA as those flows to countries and territories on the DAC list of ODA recipients and multilateral institutions which are:
(1)    Provided by official agencies, including state and local governments, or by their executive agencies; and
(2)    Each transaction of which:
a. is administered with the promotion of the economic development and welfare of developing countries as its main objective; and
b. is concessional in character and conveys a grant element of at least 25 percent (calculated at a rate of discount of 10%). 
All donors refers to DAC donors, other bilateral providers of development cooperation and multilateral organizations.  
Biodiversity refers to the OECD Creditor Reporting System’s (CRS) Rio marker for biodiversity. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Total ODA flows to developing countries quantify the public effort that donors provide to developing countries for biodiversity.
Data Sources and Collection Method
The OECD/DAC has been collecting data on official and private resource flows from 1960 at an aggregate level and 1973 at an activity level through the CRS (CRS data are considered complete from 1995 for commitments at an activity level and 2002 for disbursements). The Rio marker for biodiversity was introduced in 2002. 
A statistical reporter is responsible for the collection of DAC statistics in each providing country/agency. This reporter is usually located in the national aid agency, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Finance etc. 
The OECD/DAC Secretariat prepares and submits an annual questionnaire (at an aggregate level and at an activity level) to national statistical reporters, and is responsible for collecting, validating and publishing these data.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
This indicator is calculated as the sum of all ODA flows from all donors to developing countries that have biodiversity as a principal or significant objective, thus marked with the Rio marker for biodiversity. 
Comments and limitations:
Data in the CRS data are available from 1973. However, the data coverage, at an activity level,  is considered complete from 1995 for commitments and 2002 for disbursements. The Rio biodiversity marker was introduced in 2002. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by donor, by recipient country (or region), by type of finance, by type of aid, by sub-sector, by policy marker (e.g. gender), etc.
