		Goal 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss
While the protection of areas in forest and terrestrial ecosystems is increasing and forest loss has slowed, other facets of terrestrial conservation continue to need accelerated efforts to protect biodiversity, land productivity and species and genetic resources.In 2015, forests covered about 4 billion hectares or 31 per cent of the worlds land area. The bulk of the worlds forest is comprised of natural forest (93 per cent), with the remaining 7 per cent planted. Despite a decrease in forest area over recent decades, the rate of forest loss has been cut by 25 per cent since the period 20002005. Most of the losses occur in sub-Saharan Africa, South-Eastern Asia and Latin America, and are mainly attributed to the expansion of agricultural activities. Promisingly, the proportion of protected forest area and forests under long-term management plans are increasing. The average proportion of important sites for biodiversity covered by protected areas continues to increase. As at January 2018, the average proportion of each key biodiversity area for freshwater, terrestrial and mountain biodiversity covered by protected areas was 44 per cent, 47 per cent and 48 per cent, respectively.About one fifth of the Earths land surface covered by vegetation showed persistent and declining trends in productivity from 1998 to 2013. Up to 24 million km2 of land was affected, including 19 per cent of cropland, 16 per cent of forest land, 19 per cent of grassland and 28 per cent of rangeland. In some cases, advanced stages of land degradation are leading to desertification in dryland areas, particularly in the grasslands and rangelands.Globally, in 2017, 76 per cent of mountain areas were covered by a form of green vegetation, including forests, shrubs, grassland and cropland, which tends to be positively correlated to the health of the mountains and their capacity to fulfil ecosystem roles. Changes in species extinction risk are measured by the Red List Index, incorporating data for more than 20,000 animal and plant species and indicating an increasing risk of extinction for species as the index moves toward zero. Since 1993, the Red List Index has declined from 0.82 to 0.74 globally. The primary drivers of this biodiversity loss are habitat loss from unsustainable agriculture, deforestation, unsustainable harvest and trade and alien invasive species.As part of the commitment by Member States to promote fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, as at February 2018, 105 countries have ratified the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from Their Utilization to the Convention on Biological Diversity (up from 96 countries in 2017), and 50 countries have shared information on their access and benefit-sharing frameworks. To the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, there are now 144 contracting parties, and 22 countries have thus far provided information about their access and benefit-sharing measures.Illicit poaching and trafficking of wildlife continues to thwart conservation efforts, with nearly 7,000 species of animals and plants reported in illegal trade involving 120 countries. Strong international and local action has recently been taken to curtail the illegal trade in certain species, in particular ivory from elephants.In response to ongoing biological invasions, national Governments are increasingly committed to preventing introductions of invasive alien species and managing existing invasions. Since 2010, the percentage of countries that have enacted national legislation relevant to the prevention and management of invasive alien species has increased by 19 per cent.In 2016, bilateral ODA in support of biodiversity was $7 billion, a decrease of 21 per cent in real terms since 2015.
