Indicator 13.1.2: Number of countries that adopt and implement national disaster risk reduction strategies in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030
Target 13.1: Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries
Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator measures the number of countries that adopt and implement national disaster risk reduction (DRR) strategies in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, with multiple dimensions of the level of implementation. 
Concepts:
Disaster risk reduction strategies: define goals and objectives across different timescales and with concrete targets, indicators and time frames. In line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, these should be aimed at preventing the creation of disaster risk, the reduction of existing risk and the strengthening of economic, social, health and environmental resilience. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
The Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 was adopted by UN Member States in March 2015 as a global policy of disaster risk reduction. Among the global targets, “Target E: Substantially increase the number of countries with national and local disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020” will promote DRR and eventually contribute to sustainable development and strengthen economic, social, health and environmental resilience. The economic, environmental and social perspectives would include poverty eradication, urban resilience, and climate change adaptation. Their economic, environmental and social perspectives would include poverty eradication, urban resilience, and climate change adaptation.
In line with the Sendai Framework, DRR strategies and policies should mainstream and integrate disaster risk reduction within and across all sectors, across different timescales and with targets, indicators and time frames. These DRR strategies should be aimed at preventing the creation of disaster risk, the reduction of existing risk, the strengthening of economic, social, health and environmental resilience, and other key elements stipulated in the Sendai Framework.
The open-ended intergovernmental expert working group on indicators and terminology relating to disaster risk reduction (OIEWG) established by the General Assembly (resolution 69/284) has developed a set of indicators to measure global progress in the implementation of the Sendai Framework, which was endorsed by the UNGA (OIEWG report A/71/644). The relevant global indicator for the Sendai Framework, E-1, is used to report for this indicator.  
Data Sources and Collection Method
Appointed Sendai Framework focal points. 
In most countries national disaster loss databases are established and managed by special purpose agencies including national disaster management agencies, civil protection agencies, and meteorological agencies, and disaster data collected by line ministries.  The Sendai Framework Focal Points in each country are responsible of data reporting through the online Sendai Framework Monitoring System.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
Detailed methodologies can be found in the Technical Guidance (see the Reference) 
Summary 
This is a quantitative indicator by increment measurements for achievement that would quantify the improvement in the quality of national DRR strategies over time, rather than binary measurement (yes/no), which was based on the deliberations of the OIEWG as well as the IAEG-SDGs. 
Ten Key elements derived from the Sendai Framework are used as sub-indicators (5 levels from 0 to 1: 0, 0.25, 0.50, 0.75, 1.0) to measure the alignment with the Sendai Framework. Member States are to assess the level of implementation for each sub-indicator. 
This indicator is calculated through the arithmetic  average of these sub-indicators: 
National DRR strategies are to 
i. Have different timescales, with targets, indicators and time frames
ii. Have aims at preventing the creation of risk
iii. Have aims at reducing existing risk
iv. Have aims at strengthening economic, social, health and environmental resilience
v. Address the recommendations of Priority 1, Understanding disaster risk : Based on risk knowledge and assessments to identify risks at the local and national levels of the technical, financial and administrative disaster risk management capacity
vi. Address the recommendations of Priority 2, Strengthening disaster risk governance to manage disaster risk : Mainstream and integrate DRR within and across all sectors with defining roles and responsibilities
vii. Address the recommendations of Priority 3, Investing in disaster risk reduction for resilience : Guide to allocation of the necessary resources at all levels of administration for the development and the implementation of DRR strategies in all relevant sectors
viii. Address the recommendations of Priority 4, Enhancing disaster preparedness for effective response and to “Build Back Better” in recovery, rehabilitation and reconstruction : Strengthen disaster preparedness for response and integrate DRR response preparedness and development measures to make nations and communities resilient to disasters
ix. Promote policy coherence relevant to disaster risk reduction such as sustainable development, poverty eradication, and climate change, notably with the SDGs and the Paris Agreement
x. Have mechanisms to follow-up, periodically assess and publicly report on progress. 
Comments and limitations:
The Sendai Framework Monitoring System has been developed to measure the progress in the implementation of the Sendai Framework by UNGA endorsed indicators. Member States are to report through the System from March 2018. The data for SDG indicators are compiled and reported by UNISDR.
In contrast to a binary measurement of “legislative and/or regulatory provisions of DRR” in the previous Hyogo Framework for Action Monitor, the Sendai Framework Monitor can incrementally measure the progress by with multiple dimensions of the level of implementation. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
None
