Indicator 9.a.1: Total official international support (official development assistance plus other official flows) to infrastructure
Target 9.a: Facilitate sustainable and resilient infrastructure development in developing countries through enhanced financial, technological and technical support to African countries, least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States
Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the sum of all gross disbursements of Official Development Assistance (ODA) and Other Official Flows (OOF) from all donors in support of infrastructure development. 
Concepts:
The Development Assistance Committee (DAC) defines ODA as those flows to countries and territories on the DAC list of ODA recipients and multilateral institutions which are:
(1)    Provided by official agencies, including state and local governments, or by their executive agencies; and
(2)    Each transaction of which:
a. is administered with the promotion of the economic development and welfare of developing countries as its main objective; and
b. is concessional in character and conveys a grant element of at least 25 percent (calculated at a rate of discount of 10%). 
OOF refer to all other official sector transactions that do not meet the ODA criteria, and are not export credits. 
Infrastructure support refers to all OECD Creditor Reporting System (CRS) purpose codes in the 200 series (see http://www.oecd.org/dac/financing-sustainable-development/development-finance-standards/purposecodessectorclassification.htm).  
Rationale and Interpretation:
Total resource flows to developing countries quantify the public effort (excluding export credits) that donors provide to developing countries for infrastructure. 
Data Sources and Collection Method
Data is received from national focal points (statistical reporter) within national aid agencies, ministries of foreign affairs or finance etc.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
This indicator is calculated as the sum of all ODA and OOF from donors to developing countries for infrastructure (CRS codes in the 200 series). 
Comments and limitations:
The CRS data are available from 1973. However, the data coverage, at an activity level, is considered complete from 1995 for commitments and 2002 for disbursements. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by type of flow (ODA or OOF), by donor, recipient country, type of finance, type of aid, sub-sector etc. 
