SDG 9: Infrastructure and Industrialization

Investments in infrastructure  transport, irrigation, energy and information and communication technology  are crucial to achieving sustainable development and empowering communities in many countries. It has long been recognized that growth in productivity and incomes, and improvements in health and education outcomes require investment in infrastructure

Manufacturing is an important driver of economic development and employment. At the current time, however, manufacturing value added per capita is only US$100 in the least developed countries compared to over US$4,500 in Europe and Northern America. Another important factor to consider is the emission of Carbon Dioxide during manufacturing processes. Emissions have decreased over the past decade in many countries but the pace of decline has not been even around the world.

Technological progress is the foundation of efforts to achieve environmental objectives, such as increased resource and energy-efficiency. Without technology and innovation, industrialization will not happen, and without industrialization, development will not happen. There needs to be more investments in high-tech products that dominate the manufacturing productions to increase efficiency and a focus on mobile cellular services that increase connections between people.



Basic infrastructure like roads, information and communication technologies, sanitation, electrical power and water remains scarce in many developing countries
16% of the global population does not have access to mobile broadband networks.
For many African countries, particularly the lower-income countries, the existent constraints regarding infrastructure affect firm productivity by around 40 per cent.
The global share of manufacturing value added in GDP increased from 15.2% in 2005 to 16.3% in 2017, driven by the fast growth of manufacturing in Asia.
Industrializations job multiplication effect has a positive impact on society. Every job in manufacturing creates 2.2 jobs in other sectors.
Small and medium-sized enterprises that engage in industrial processing and manufacturing are the most critical for the early stages of industrialization and are typically the largest job creators. They make up over 90 per cent of business worldwide and account for between 50-60 per cent of employment.
Least developed countries have immense potential for industrialization in food and beverages (agro-industry), and textiles and garments, with good prospects for sustained employment generation and higher productivity
Middle-income countries can benefit from entering the basic and fabricated metals industries, which offer a range of products facing rapidly growing international demand
In developing countries, barely 30 per cent of agricultural production undergoes industrial processing. In high-income countries, 98 per cent is processed. This suggests that there are great opportunities for developing countries in agribusiness.
Goal 9 targets

Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional and transborder infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all
Promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and, by 2030, significantly raise industrys share of employment and gross domestic product, in line with national circumstances, and double its share in least developed countries
Increase the access of small-scale industrial and other enterprises, in particular in developing countries, to financial services, including affordable credit, and their integration into value chains and markets upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities
Enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors in all countries, in particular developing countries, including, by 2030, encouraging innovation and substantially increasing the number of research and development workers per 1 million people and public and private research and development spending
Facilitate sustainable and resilient infrastructure development in developing countries through enhanced financial, technological and technical support to African countries, least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States 18
Support domestic technology development, research and innovation in developing countries, including by ensuring a conducive policy environment for, inter alia, industrial diversification and value addition to commodities
Significantly increase access to information and communications technology and strive to provide universal and affordable access to the Internet in least developed countries by 2020

Industrializations job multiplication effect has a positive impact on society. Every one job in manufacturing creates 2.2 jobs in other sectors.
INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE
To build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation
Economic growth, social development and climate action are heavily dependent on investments in infrastructure, sustainable industrial development and technological progress.
In the face of a rapidly changing global economic landscape and increasing inequalities, sustained growth must include industrialization that first of all, makes opportunities accessible to all people, and two, is supported by innovation and resilient infrastructure.
Basic infrastructure like roads, information and communication technologies, sanitation, electrical power and water remains scarce in many developing countries. Approximately 1.2 billion people do not have access to reliable phone services. 2.3 billion people worldwide lack access to basic sanitation and almost 800 million lack access to water. In developing countries, barely 30 per cent of agricultural production undergoes industrial processing.
Its about our livelihoods. The growth of new industries means improvement in the standard of living for many of us. Also, if industries pursue sustainability, this approach will have a positive effect on the environment. Climate change affects all us.
The price is steep. Ending poverty would be more difficult, given the industrys role as a core driver of the global development agenda to eradicate poverty and advance sustainable development.
Additionally, failing to improve infrastructure and promote technological innovation could translate into poor health care, inadequate sanitation and limited access to education.
Establish standards and promote regulations that ensure company projects and initiatives are sustainably managed.
Collaborate with NGOs and the public sector to help promote sustainable growth within developing countries.
Think about how industry impacts on your life and well-being and use social media to push for policymakers to prioritize the SDGs.

