Indicator 5.4.1: Proportion of time spent on unpaid domestic and care work, by sex, age and location
Target 5.4: Recognize and value unpaid care and domestic work through the provision of public services, infrastructure and social protection policies and the promotion of shared responsibility within the household and the family as nationally appropriate
Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the proportion of time spent in a day on unpaid domestic and care work by men and women. Unpaid domestic and care work refers to activities related to the provision of services for own final use by household members, or by family members living in other households. These activities are listed in ICATUS 2016 under the major divisions “3. Unpaid domestic services for household and family members” and “4. Unpaid caregiving services for household and family members”. 
Concepts: 
Unpaid domestic and care work refers to activities including food preparation, dishwashing, cleaning and upkeep of the dwelling, laundry, ironing, gardening, caring for pets, shopping, installation, servicing and repair of personal and household goods, childcare, and care of the sick, elderly or disabled household and family members, among others. These activities are listed in ICATUS 2016 under the major divisions “3. Unpaid domestic services for household and family members” and “4. Unpaid caregiving services for household and family members”. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Time use statistics:
(1) provide a measure of quality of life or general wellbeing of individuals and households;
(2) offer a more comprehensive measurement of all forms of work, including unpaid household service work;
(3) produce data relevant for monitoring gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls and are essential inputs for the policy and political dialogue on gender equality.
Data Sources and Collection Method
Most data on time-use are collected through dedicated national time-use surveys or from time-use modules that are integrated into multi-purpose household surveys. 
In most countries, national statistical offices are responsible for collecting and compiling this data. 
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method: 
Proportion of time spent on unpaid domestic and care work ( ) is calculated as:
 ￼
where 
￼
If data on time spent are weekly, data are averaged over seven days of the week to obtain daily time spent. 
Comments and limitations:
International comparability of time-use statistics is limited by the following factors:
(1)    Type of instrument used for time-use data collection. i.e. whether data are collected using a 24-hour diary, a light diary or a stylized questionnaire. The 24-hour time diary yields more granulated data than the stylized questionnaire but it is a more expensive mode of data collection. Data obtained from these two different data collection methods are usually not comparable, and even data collected with different stylized questions might not be comparable given that the level of details asked about activities performed might differ from one instrument to another, thus impacting the total time spent on a given activity;
(2)    Differences in time-use activity classifications used by countries;
(3)    Way of reporting time spent on main and secondary activities. To the extent possible, data presented at the global level refer to the “main activity” only;
(4)    Differences in the target age population and age groups used by countries. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator should be disaggregated by the following dimensions: sex, age and location.
The categories for disaggregation, by dimension, are as follows:
	▪	Sex: female/male;
	▪	Age: the recommended age groups are: 15+, 15-24, 25-44, 45-54, 55-64 and 65+
	▪	Location: urban/rural (following national definitions given the lack of international definition) 
These categories have been recommended by the Inter-Agency and Expert Group on Gender Statistics (IAEG-GS) during its 11th meeting in Rome, Italy on 30-31 October 2017.
