Indicator 5.2.2: Proportion of women and girls aged 15 years and older subjected to sexual violence by persons other than an intimate partner in the previous 12 months, by age and place of occurrence
Target 5.2: Eliminate all forms of violence against all women and girls in the public and private spheres, including trafficking and sexual and other types of exploitation
Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the percentage of ever-partnered women and girls aged 15 years and above who have experienced sexual violence by persons other than an intimate partner, in the past 12 months 
Concepts:
Intimate partner refers to a current or former partner within the context of marriage, cohabitation or any other formal or informal union. 
Sexual violence is defined as any sort of harmful or unwanted sexual behaviour that is imposed on someone. 
More detailed definition of sexual violence can be found in the Guidelines for Producing Statistics on Violence against Women—Statistical Surveys (UN, 2014). 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Violence against women and girls is one of the most pervasive forms of human rights violations in the world. Evidence has shown that globally, an estimated 7% of women have been sexually assaulted by someone other than a partner at some point in their lives (WHO et al., 2013). Having data on this indicator will help understand the extent and nature of this form of violence and develop appropriate policies and programmes. Tracking this indicator over time allows for monitoring change and assess the effectiveness of interventions.
Data Sources and Collection Method
The primary source of data for this indicator are specialized national surveys dedicated to measuring violence against women, and international household surveys that include a module on experience of violence by women such as the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS). For further information on data sources and collection methods, see: UN Guidelines for Producing Statistics on Violence Against Women – Statistical Surveys (UN, 2014). The module should be administered to all ever-partnered women and not only to currently partnered women. 
It is to be noted that, though, administrative data from health, police, courts, justice and social services etc. used by survivors of violence, can provide valuable information about service use, this incidence data is insufficient for producing prevalence data.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
The percentage of women and girls of aged 15 years and above subjected to sexual violence by persons other than an intimate partner (Psv) in the past 12 months can be calculated using the following formula: 
￼
where,
Wsv is the number of women and girls aged 15 years and above who experienced sexual violence by persons other than an intimate partner in the previous 12 months; and
WT is the total number of women and girls aged 15 years and above in the country. 
Comments and limitations:
The availability of comparable data remains a challenge in this area due to differences in survey methodologies, different definitions of partner or spousal violence and of the different forms of violence, different survey question formulations, and different age groups. Willingness to discuss experiences of violence and understanding of relevant concepts may also differ according to the cultural context, and may lead to under-reporting of prevalence levels. 
Gathering data on violence against women is costly and time-consuming, whether they are collected using dedicated surveys or through added modules of existing household surveys. Furthermore, prevalence is unlikely to change in the short term without major investments at all levels and across sectors. Therefore, the periodicity of this indicator need not be more than every 5 years, or even more if financial resources are unavailable. 
Surveys on violence against women require particular attention to safety and ethical dimensions, including ensuring all interviews are conducted in privacy, the data is treated confidentially and that women provide their informed consent. For more detailed information see Putting women first. Ethical and safety recommendations for research on domestic violence against women (WHO, 2001)  
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator requires disaggregation by age group and place of occurrence. No standard definitions and methods have been globally agreed to yet for the collection of data regarding the place where violence occurs. Therefore, it is not yet required. 
In addition to age, disaggregation by income/wealth, education, ethnicity (including indigenous status), disability status, geographic location, relationship with perpetrator (including sex of perpetrator) and frequency and type of violence (as proxy to severity), can be beneficial. 
