Indicator 17.18.3: Number of countries with a national statistical plan that is fully funded and under implementation, by source of funding 
Target 17.18: By 2020, enhance capacity-building support to developing countries, including for least developed countries and small island developing States, to increase significantly the availability of high quality, timely and reliable data disaggregated by income, gender, age, race, ethnicity, migratory status, disability, geographic location and other characteristics relevant in national contexts
Goal 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
The indicator is defined as the number of countries with a national statistical plan that is fully funded and under implementation, as reported in the annual status reports on National Strategies for the Development of Statistics.  
Concepts:
Fully funded means …the total amount of the National Statistics Plan’s budget has been secured (committed or disbursed) and there is no funding gap remaining. 
National statistical plan is defined as an NSDS or similar national policy document that covers the development and ownership of statistics in a country. 
A National Strategy for the Development of Statistics (NSDS) is a national framework, process and product for statistics development aimed at mainstreaming statistics into national policy and planning process; producing information responding to the needs of the various users; mainstreaming sectors and other players into the National Statistics System (NSS); coordinating the entire NSS; responding to data challenges; delivering a country-led data revolution; and building statistical capacity across the “the statistical value chain”. The NSDS spans a five to ten year implementation period. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
This indicator is a direct measurement of the number of countries that are working towards enhancing their statistical capacity so that high quality, timely and reliable data is available to track progress on the SDGs. 
Data Sources and Collection Method
Data for this indicator can come from national focal points based in country’s national statistical offices (NSO). Information is collected annually. 
PARIS21 collects this data as well, liaising directly with the national focal points.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
This indicator is calculated as a global aggregate through a simple addition of countries that are (1) implementing a strategy, (2) designing a strategy, or (3) awaiting adoption of a strategy in the current year.  The level of funding of the plan is measured by aggregating the funding committed by the different funders. If the total committed equals the total fund required for the plan, then it is fully funded, otherwise it is partially funded. 
Comments and limitations: N/A 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by geographical area.
