Indicator 17.6.2: Fixed internet broadband subscriptions per 100 inhabitants, by speed
Target 17.6: Enhance North-South, South-South and triangular regional and international cooperation on and access to science, technology and innovation and enhance knowledge-sharing on mutually agreed terms, including through improved coordination among existing mechanisms, in particular at the United Nations level, and through a global technology facilitation mechanism
Goal 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the number of fixed internet broadband connections/subscriptions of different speed tiers per 100 inhabitants of a country. The speed tiers considered are advertised downstream speeds of:
(1)    256 Kilobits per second (Kbps) to 2Megabits per second (Mbps);
(2)    2Mbps to 10 Mbps; and
(3)    Greater than 10 Mbps. 
Concepts:
Fixed internet broadband refers to subscriptions to high-speed access to public internet at downstream speeds greater than 256Kbps. It includes cable modem, DSL, fiber-to-the-home, other fixed (wired) broadband, satellite broadband and terrestrial fixed wireless broadband. It does not include internet access through mobile-cellular networks, and includes both residential and organizational subscriptions. 
Advertised downstream speeds refers to the speed advertised by the Internet service providers at which data (including files, web sites, pictures, music, movies, etc) could be delivered to Internet subscribers. The advertised speed can differ from the actual speed of connection that a user may experience at the time of Internet use. 
Rationale and Interpretation: 
The internet has become an increasingly important tool to provide access to information that can help foster and enhance regional and international cooperation and access, particularly in the contexts of science, technology, innovations, through knowledge sharing. Limits to broadband connections is a barrier to target 17.6, and therefore, the measurement of the number of broadband connections provides insight into the level of enabling environment for such cooperation.  
Data Sources and Collection Method
National regulatory authorities or Information and Communication Technology (ICT) ministries collect this data from the administrative systems of internet service providers. This data is then aggregated to get national-level figures. 
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
The number of fixed internet broadband connections/subscriptions per 100 inhabitants of a country (Nbroadband) can be calculated as: 
￼
This indicator is to be calculated for the three suggested downstream speed brackets separately. 
Comments and limitations:
Since most internet service providers offer plans linked to download speed, the indicator is easy to disaggregate by speed. It is possible that the speed brackets that are used by countries for this indicator may be different than what are proposed here. For such countries, it is advised to collect data for more speed categories such that it can be aggregated easily to the suggested brackets. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
Disaggregation by speed and subscription type is recommended, as well as by geographic location (urban/rural),
