Indicator 17.15.1: Extent of use of country-owned results frameworks and planning tools by providers of development cooperation 
Target 17.15: Respect each country's policy space and leadership to establish and implement policies for poverty eradication and sustainable development
Goal 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator measures the extent to which, and the ways in which, all concerned development partners use country-led results frameworks (CRFs) to plan development cooperation efforts and assess their performance. 
Concepts:
CRFs define a country’s approach to results and its associated monitoring and evaluation systems focusing on performance and achievement of development results. Using a minimal definition, these results frameworks include agreed objectives and results indicators. They also set targets to measure progress in achieving the objectives defined in the government’s planning documents. Some examples of CRF are long term vision plans; national development strategies; joint government-multi-donor plans; government’s sector strategies, policies and plans; subnational planning instruments, as well as other frameworks (e.g. budget support performance matrices, sector-wide approaches). In contrast, planning and priority setting documents produced outside the government, such as country strategies prepared by providers, are not considered CRFs. The definition of country-led results framework used here allows the possibility to use equivalent priority-setting mechanisms at the country level since not all countries articulate their priorities through consistent, integrated CRFs. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Measuring the alignment of development partners’ support to country priorities in terms of intervention design and type of results-reporting mechanisms provides a relevant assessment regarding the degree of “respect for each country’s policy space and leadership to establish and implement country-owned policies for poverty eradication and sustainable development”.
Data Sources and Collection Method
At country level, data are reported by relevant government entities (e.g. the Ministry of finance/budget department for national budget information) and by development partners and stakeholders. More details on the data collection process can be found in the related monitoring guidance at http://effectivecooperation.org/pdf/2018_Monitoring_Guide_National_Coordinator.pdf. 
OECD and UNDP are supporting countries in collecting relevant data on a biennial basis through the Global Partnership monitoring framework, and these organisations lead data aggregation and quality assurance at the global level. Data and evidence generated through the country-led monitoring process are disseminated through the online Global Partnership Monitoring Dashboard.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
To provide a comprehensive measure on the use of country‐owned results frameworks and other government‐led planning tools, the indicator calculates the degree to which objectives, results indicators and monitoring frameworks associated with new development interventions (US$ 100,000 and above) are drawn from government sources –including national, sector and subnational planning tools.
The following table shows the three dimensions on which this is assessed, and their unit of assessment:
For each development intervention of significant size
(US$ 1 million and above) approved during the year of reference
Q1
Whether objectives are drawn from government-led results frameworks, plans and strategies
0/1
Q2
Share of results (outcome) indicators that are drawn from government-led results frameworks, plans and strategies
%
Q3
Share of results (outcome) indicators that will rely on sources of data provided by existing country-led monitoring systems or national statistical services to track project progress
%
Step 1:
Below are the formulae for the computation of the values for each of the three dimensions:
￼
Q1is abinary indicator which takes the value of 0 or 1 based on the above criteria. 
Q2 and Q3 are calculated as below:
￼
where nr is the number of outcome indicators drawn from existing government results frameworks and/or other planning documents; ns is the number of outcome indicators to be tracked using government ongoing statistics, data sources or M&E systems (i.e. not project‐specific sources); n is the total number of outcome indicators included in the project’s results framework. 
Step 2:
For this step, Q1j, Q2j, Q3j denotes the values for Q1­, Q2, and Q3 for project j, respectively.
For the year of reference:
(1)    Aggregated averages per developing country provide an assessment of the country’s available policy space and leadership (Ic). For a country c, the indicator I takes the value:
￼ 
where, nc is the number of new development cooperation projects reported for country c.  In the formula above, the indicator is obtained by taking the average of the three dimensions of alignment with country’s priorities and goals and then aggregating across all new development cooperation projects within the country.
(2)     Aggregated averages per provider of development cooperation will indicate the percentage of alignment with country-led priority setting mechanisms (Ip). For a provider p, the indicator (I) takes the value:
￼ 
where, np is the number of new development cooperation projects reported for provider p.  Similar to the previous formula, the indicator is obtained by taking the average of the three dimensions of alignment with country’s priorities and goals and then aggregating across all new development cooperation projects for the provider. 
Step 3:
A global aggregate for the indicator is obtained by averaging the three dimensions of alignment with country’s priorities and goals across all new interventions for the reporting year: 
￼
Comments and limitations:
When aggregating, the size of the development cooperation project/intervention is not considered as a weight in order to give the same level of importance to the extent of use of country‐owned results frameworks and planning tools in medium‐sized vs. larger projects. This is because this indicator tries to capture the overall behaviour of providers in designing new interventions in a given country. Weighting by project size would otherwise over‐represent infrastructure projects and underrepresent interventions focused on influencing policies and institutional arrangements. Nevertheless, data on project size is available. 
Current monitoring exercises are collecting data beyond the scope of the proposed indicator, including aspects such as provider government engagement in project planning and programme evaluations. This may be refined further. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated at the country, provider, sector and the development project level.
