Indicator 17.16.1: Number of countries reporting progress in multi-stakeholder development effectiveness monitoring frameworks that support the achievement of the sustainable development goals 
Target 17.16: Enhance the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development, complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals in all countries, in particular developing countries
Goal 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator tracks the number of countries reporting progress in multi-stakeholder monitoring frameworks that track the implementation of development effectiveness commitments supporting the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
Concepts:
“Multi-stakeholder development effectiveness monitoring frameworks” that track effective development cooperation are monitoring frameworks:
-          whose indicators have been agreed on a voluntary basis; whose indicators measure the strength of the relationship between development actors;
-          where data collection and review is led by the countries themselves; and where participation in data collection and review involves relevant multi-stakeholder representing, at minimum, the public sector, the private sector and civil society organizations. 
The Global Partnership for Effective Development Cooperation (Global Partnership) is an example of development effectiveness monitoring frameworks. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals requires mobilizing and strengthening multi-stakeholder partnerships that can bring and effectively use all the available knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources for sustainable development. The quality of the relationship between all the relevant partners defines the strength of the global partnership for sustainable development.
This indicator provides a measure of countries’ efforts to enhance such multi-stakeholder partnerships, and by extension the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development, by looking at progress made on a set of indicators that track how well country providers and recipients of development co-operation are working together towards sustainable development.
Reflecting the spirit of the global partnership for sustainable development, and the universal nature of the SDGs, the indicator monitors the contribution and behaviour of both provider and recipient countries in establishing more effective, inclusive multi-stakeholder partnerships to support and sustain the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. It does so by measuring their respective but differentiated commitments to strengthen the quality of their development partnerships.
Data Sources and Collection Method
Country governments receiving development co-operation lead and coordinate data collection and validation. At country level, data are reported by relevant government entities (e.g. the Ministry of finance/budget department for national budget information) and by development partners and stakeholders. OECD and UNDP are supporting countries in collecting relevant data on a biennial basis through the Global Partnership monitoring framework, and these organisations lead data aggregation and quality assurance at the global level. More details on the data collection process can be found in the Monitoring Guide at http://effectivecooperation.org/pdf/2018_Monitoring_Guide_National_Coordinator.pdf 
Complementarily, the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs has been conducting regular surveys for the Development Cooperation Forum in partnership with UNDP to identify national progress in mutual accountability and transparency. Synergies with the measurement of indicator 7 of the Global Partnership monitoring framework are being used.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
To reflect the universal nature of target 17.16, this indicator is presented as the global aggregate number of countries reporting progress. For any country reporting towards one (or more) multi-stakeholder development effectiveness framework(s), the country  is considered to be reporting progress when, for the year of reference, the number of indicators within the framework(s) that show a positive trend is greater than the number of indicators that show a negative trend.
Countries providing development co-operation funding and reporting in multi-stakeholder development effectiveness monitoring frameworks are assessed against the following elements:
	1.	Aligning to country-defined development objectives: Percentage of new development interventions whose objectives are drawn from country-led results frameworks.
	2.	Using country-led results frameworks: Percentage of results indicators contained in new development interventions, which are drawn from country-led results frameworks.
	3.	Using national monitoring and statistical systems: Percentage of results indicators which will be monitored using government sources and monitoring systems.
	4.	Using national evaluation systems: Percentage of new interventions that plan a final evaluation with country government involvement.
	5.	Transparency of development co-operation: Public availability of information on development co‑operation according to international reporting standards;
	6.	Annual predictability of development co-operation: Proportion of development co-operation disbursed as development partners had scheduled at the beginning of the year.
	7.	Medium-term predictability of development co-operation: forward-looking spending plans made available to the partner government (indicative annual amounts of development co-operation support to be provided over the one-to-three years)
	8.	Development co-operation on budgets subject to parliamentary oversight: share of development co-operation funds planned to/for the country's public sector that are recorded in the annual budget submitted for legislative approval.
	9.	Development co-operation delivered through country systems: Proportion of development cooperation disbursed to a given country according to national regulations and systems for public financial management (i.e. budgeting, financial reporting, auditing) and procurement.
	10.	Untied Aid: Proportion of development co-operation that is untied. 
Countries receiving development co-operation funding and reporting in multi-stakeholder development effectiveness monitoring frameworks are assessed against the following elements: 
	1.	Leading in setting up national priorities: Countries strengthen their national results frameworks.
	2.	Creating an enabling environment for civil society organisations: Civil society organizations operate within an environment that maximises their engagement in and contribution to development.
	3.	Promoting private sector engagement and contribution to development: Quality of public-private dialogue.
	4.	Recording development co-operation on budgets subject to parliamentary oversight: share of development co-operation funds planned to/for the country’s public sector that are recorded in the annual budget submitted for legislative approval.
	5.	Strengthening mutual accountability: Mutual accountability among development actors is strengthened through inclusive reviews Strengthening gender equality and women’s empowerment: Countries have systems to track and make public allocations for gender equality and women’s empowerment.
	6.	Strengthening domestic institutions: Quality of the country’s Public Financial Management Systems 
Countries providing and receiving development co-operation funding and reporting in multi-stakeholder development effectiveness monitoring frameworks.
For countries reporting both as providers and recipients of development co-operation, progress is calculated separately based on the respective set of indicators described above. Disaggregated results will show the detailed performance in each category. For the ultimate count of the number of countries making progress, dual countries are accounted as making progress if progress is made as recipient or as provider of development co-operation.  
Comments and limitations:
Data collection for the Global Partnership monitoring framework is led by low and middle-income countries receiving development co-operation. Progress of countries providing development co-operation in implementing development effectiveness commitments is captured through their partnership behaviour in those low and middle-income countries. Depending on each case, middle-income countries that currently are both recipient and providers of development cooperation opt to report in their role as recipient and/or provider of development cooperation. 
Data Disaggregation
The indicator presented as a global aggregate is generated through a bottom-up approach whereby data is collected at the country level and can therefore be disaggregated back at the level of countries (for both development cooperation providers and recipients) for national analysis and mutual dialogue. The data can also be further disaggregated according to individual indicators (i.e. specific dimensions of effective development cooperation) that are included within the multi- stakeholder frameworks.
