Indicator 6.a.1: Amount of water and sanitation-related official development assistance that is part of a government-coordinated spending plan
Target 6.a: By 2030, expand international cooperation and capacity-building support to developing countries in water- and sanitation-related activities and programmes, including water harvesting, desalination, water efficiency, wastewater treatment, recycling and reuse technologies
Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the percentage of total water and sanitation-related Official Development Assistance (ODA) disbursements that are included in the government budget of developing countries. 
Concepts:
ODA is defined as those flows to countries and territories on the Development Assistance Committee’s (DAC) list of ODA recipients and to multilateral institutions which are
(1)    Provided by official agencies, including state and local governments, or by the executive agencies; and
(2)    Each transaction:
a. is administered with the promotion of the economic development and welfare of developing countries as its main objective; and b. is concessional in character and conveys a grant element of at least 25% (calculated at a rate of discount of 10%). 
Developing countries refers to those countries that are eligible to receive ODA according to the DAC’s list of ODA recipients. 
Water and sanitation-related activities and programmes include those for water supply, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) (targets 6.1,6.2), wastewater and water quality (6.3), water efficiency (6.4), water resource management (6.5), and water-related ecosystem (6.6). As per target 6.a, it also includes activities and programmes for water harvesting, desalination, water efficiency, wastewater treatment, recycling and reuse technologies. 
A government coordinated spending plan is defined as a financing plan/budget, for the water and sanitation sector, which clearly assesses the available sources of financing and strategies for financing future needs. 
Rationale and Interpretation: 
By measuring the percentage of water and sanitation ODA that is included in the government budget, it is possible to gain a better understanding of whether donors are aligned with national governments while highlighting total water and sanitation-related ODA disbursements over time. 
A low value of this indicator (near 0%) would suggest that international donors are investing in water and sanitation-related activities and programmes completely unaligned with the national government. On the contrary, a high value (near 100%) would indicate a stronger alignment of donors with the national government and policies for water and sanitation.
Data Sources and Collection Method
Data for the numerator for this indicator are collected from government report statistics on the amount of donor dunds that were included in the government budget. Some country provide this information to the UN-Water Global Analysis and Assessment of Sanitation and Drinking Water (GLAAS) survey. A draft survey response is compiled by an appointed focal point based on input from stakeholders, and is then finalized through a national multi-stakeholder review. Ministries with responsibilities related to finance, water supply and sanitation, agriculture, water resources development and management, environment, and foreign affairs would contribute to the survey response. 
The denominator is computed using OECD’s Creditor Reporting System (CRS) purpose codes 14000-series for the water sector and the purpose codes 31140 for agricultural water resources, 41050 for flood prevention and control, and 23220 for hydro-electric power plants. 
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
The percentage of total water and sanitation-related Official Development Assistance (ODA) disbursements that are included in the government budget of developing countries (PODA-WS) can be calculated using the following formula:
￼
where,
GOVODA-WS is the amount of water and sanitation-related ODA that are included in the government budget; and
TOTODA-WS is the total amount of water and sanitation-related ODA. 
Comments and limitations:
As the numerator and denominator come from different sources, there is a possibility of different underlying assumptions regarding what should be included/excluded in the ODA figures. This may lead to errors in the calculating of this indicator. To remedy this issue, countries would provide data for the numerator by matching project-level ODA figures from OECD with their on-budget project data. 
The OECD Creditor Reporting System (CRS) currently disaggregates ODA for the water and sanitation among several categories including: sector policy and administration, water resources protection, large and basic water and sanitation systems, river basin infrastructure, waste management, agricultural water resources, and education and training. While these categories do not align directly with the target areas of SDG 6 individually, which limits the disaggregation of ODA among the SDG target areas, the combined ODA from these categories does align with a majority of the reported ODA to the water sector. 
ODA represents only one aspect of international cooperation. To capture other dimensions, other indicators such as those from the Collaborative Behaviours identified by the Sanitation and Water for All (SWA) partnership, should also be reviewed. For further information on Collaborative Behaviours see: http://sanitationandwaterforall.org/about/the-four-swa-collaborative-behaviours/ 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators:
Total amount of water and sanitation-related ODA
The absolute amount of water and sanitation-related ODA (denominator) is reported in constant USD. This will provide an indication of scale and to assess whether absolute levels of ODA are increasing or decreasing over time. 
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by CRS code.
