Indicator 6.1.1: Proportion of population using safely managed drinking water services  
Target 6.1: By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all
Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the proportion of population using an improved drinking water source which is accessible on premises, available when needed and free from faecal and priority chemical contamination. 
Concepts:
Improved drinking water sources include piped water into dwelling, yard or plot (on premises); public taps or standpipes; boreholes or tube-wells; protected dug wells; protected springs; packaged water; delivered water and rainwater. 
A water source is considered to be accessible on premises if the point of collection is within the dwelling, yard, or plot. 
Available when needed implies that households are able to access sufficient quantities of water when needed. 
Free from  faecal or chemical contamination refers to the compliance to relevant national and local standards. In cases where such standards do not exist, reference is made to the WHO Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
This indicator adds additional normative dimensions of accessibility, availability and quality, interpreted as safely managed drinking water services, to the existing MDG metric that tracked use of ‘improved drinking water sources’. It is a proxy for measuring equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water. Improved drinking water sources are not necessarily safe, but are more likely to be protected from external contaminants than unimproved sources either by intervention or through their design and construction. Greater access to safely managed drinking water services is important as it contributes to lowering the incidence of many diseases throughout the world.
Data Sources and Collection Method
The underlying data for this indicator, use of improved drinking water sources, is a core indicator for most household surveys and censuses, and is regularly collected by national statistical offices. Household surveys and censuses currently provide information on types of drinking water sources, and also indicate if sources are on premises. These data sources often have information on the availability of water and increasingly on the quality of water at the household level, through direct testing of drinking water for faecal or chemical contamination. To further strengthen accuracy of water quality data, data obtained from the surveys can be compared against data on availability and compliance with drinking water quality standards (microbiological and chemical) from administrative reporting or regulatory bodies. 
Some of the nationally representative household surveys that typically collect information about water and sanitation include Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS), Demographic Health Surveys (DHS), World Health Surveys (WHS), Living Standards and Measurement Surveys (LSMS), Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaires (CWIQ), and the Pan Arab Project for Family Health Surveys (PAPFAM). The survey questions and response categories pertaining to drinking water are fully harmonized between MICS and DHS. 
In addition, line ministries and water utility companies usually keep records based on the number and type of water supplies constructed or the number of piped household connections maintained. Provider-based data do not include what facilities are actually used, thus, they are only used for countries that have no survey or census data on access to or use of drinking water sources. However, such administrative sources may have much more data on water quality, especially for piped water supplies, than can be gained through household surveys.  
The WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene (JMP) estimates use of improved drinking water sources, as well as the extent to which such sources are located on premises, available when needed, and free from microbiological and chemical contamination, for each country. 
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
The percentage of population using safely managed drinking water services (PSMDWS) can be calculated as:
￼
where,
Nimproved is the number of people (or households) that are using improved drinking water sources;
Ppremises,available,freefromcontamination is the population-weighted proportion of improved drinking water sources that are located on premises, available when needed, and free from faecal and priority chemical contamination; and
NTotal is the total number of people (or households) in the country. 
Comments and limitations:
Data on availability and quality of drinking water are increasingly available through a combination of household surveys and administrative sources including regulators, but definitions are not always standardized. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by place of residence (urban/rural), socioeconomic status (wealth, affordability), inequality (subnational, disadvantaged groups, etc.) and service level (including no services, basic, and safely managed services).
