 
Goal Sixteen emphasizes the rights-based approach to the SDGs-- stressing that the rule of law, the respect for rights of all and effective, accountable and inclusive institutions are essential to delivering the  Agenda. Highlights of the baseline status of the region are based on avail- able data relating to crime and violence, justice and governance.
Intentional homicide rates in the Asia-Pacific region have been falling and was half the global-wide average in 
The most readily available data on violence are the intentional homicide rates. For the Asia-Pacific region, the average rate is . per , population. The rate is highest in North and Central Asia (.); the subregion with the lowest rate is East and North-East Asia (.).
These rates have been decreasing in all
Intentional homicide rate per , population, latest year
subregions, with the exception of South-East Asia, where between  and , the rate increased from . to ..
Victims are more likely to be a man than a woman-- with the proportion of male victims exceeding % for some countries.
Intentional homicide rate per , population, - and -
World Records of , cases indicate that for
East Asia and the Pacific most victims were trafficked for sexual exploitation
Human trafficking is a crime involving the trade of humans by means of coercion, deception or abuse of vulnerability, most
% of human trafficking in South Asia
is short-distance
commonly for the purpose of forced labour, sexual slavery, or commercial sexual exploitation.
 The SDGs call for an end to trafficking and violence against children (Target .) as well as the need for measures against human trafficking (Target .), and the elimination of all forms of violence against and exploitation of women and girls (Target .).
Assessing progress in achieving SDG Target . is partly based on the number of victims of trafficking in persons, disaggregated by age, sex and forms of exploitation. Measuring the total volume of trafficking in
Between -, the proportion of prisoners who were awaiting trial or sentencing decreased in three sub-regions
Between  and , for Asia and the Pacific the prison population per , population decreased from  to , though the absolute number of prisoners grew from . million to . million.
Globally, the latest data show that around % of detainees are unsentenced. In South and South-West Asia, the proportion was  per cent-- the highest in the region. In India, the proportion was %. In most subregions, the percentage of unsentenced detainees decreased, except in the Pacific, where there
 million children under the age of five in Asia and the Pacific have not had their births registered. Registration rates range from % in Solomon Islands to % (in Democratic People's Republic of Korea; Republic of Korea; Japan; Macao, China; Russian Federation; Uzbekistan; Kazakhstan;
There is very little information on corruption in Asia and the Pacific
Corruption is the abuse of public office for private gain. Public office is abused for private gain when an official accepts, solicits, or extorts a bribe.
The limited data suggests that in Asia and the Pacific rates seem to be higher in low-income countries. Female top managers are less
persons is not an easy task; estimating the number of undetected victims remains a challenge.
Detected cases may only show the tip of the iceberg. The UNODC  Global Report on Trafficking suggests that globally % were women and girls. In East Asia and the Pacific, most of the , victims detected between - (whose age and sex were reported) were females; % were girls.
was a large increase in Fiji and Kiribati.
Unsentenced detainees (pre-trial), Asia-Pacific subregions, - and -- and -
           % of prison population
no aggregate for East and North-East Asia
Most of the unregistered are in South Asia, mainly in Pakistan with a registration rate of %, Bangladesh (%) and India (%). The children least likely to be registered are those in poor families, and in rural areas. To address this and related issues, governments in Asia and the Pacific have adopted the Ministerial Declaration to "Get Every One in the Picture".
likely to receive bribe payment requests than male top managers.
Percentage of firms experiencing at least one bribe payment request, by country income group and sex of top manager, latest year (-)
Lower middle-income ( countries) Upper middle-income ( countries)
