                                                                       Goal Eight aims for economic growth that is sustained, sustainable and inclusive, employment opportunities for all characterized as productive, in safe and secure environments and providing decent work. Highlights of the baseline status of the region are based on GDP per capita, GDP per worker, unemployment rates, informal employment and access to financial services. Meas- ures of the sustainability of economic growth based on material footprint and material consump- tion are presented under Goal .
LDCs in the Asia-Pacific region need to GDP per capita growth rate per annum,  -  accelerate economic growth in order to
meet the SDG target of minimum % annual per capita economic growth
 Growth in per capita GDP was interrupted by  .
   the economic crisis of -. The region . .
made a rapid recovery in , but has since
fallen back. Over the period -, per  capital GDP (in  dollars) of East and
North-East Asia reached a high of $,; - South and South-West Asia achieved only  $,.
 For LDCs the SDG target is a minimum
annual per capita economic growth rate of
Before the  economic crisis, the
Asia-Pacific LDCs had achieved this. But
between  and  the maximum rate
was .%. In , only Myanmar met the
target with an annual per capita GDP growth
rate of % which however declined to .%  in .
Asia and the Pacific has generally outpaced - the world as a whole in regard to economic
GDP per employed person change per annum,  - 
     productivity. Productivity, as measured by GDP per employed person, increased steadily between  to  in all
subregions. Productivity growth of LDCs as a whole topped the regional growth at .% in .
Unemployment rates for both young men The unemployment rate in Asia and the Pacific and women are higher than that in the in  was .%. Unemployment rates for general working age population across all women are higher than men in Pacific Island subregions in Asia and the Pacific developing economies, South and South-West
                  
 Asia and, to a lesser extent, in South-East Asia. Unemployment for youth, both males and females, is  to  times higher.
The unemployment rate presents only a part of the picture. The latest data shows that countries with higher rates of informal employment in the non-agriculture sector tend to have lower rates of unemployment.
Unemployment rates and share of informal employment in total non-agriculture employment, selected countries, latest year, -, percentage
Female unemployment Male unemployment
Female informal employment Male informal employment
           Unemployment rates, female, male and youth, , percentage
     Female youth Female total
Male youth Male total
LDCs
     Access to financial services, per . adults, selected countries, listed by per capita GDP, latest available year
   Rich countries may not always have wider access to banking and financial services
Generally, higher-income countries will have higher scores on indicators of access to financial services-- but not necessarily so. Australia, for example, has almost twice the per capita GDP of the Republic of Korea, but far fewer ATMs -- and far fewer bank branches per capita than Mongolia.
Although disbursements of aid-for-trade have risen steadily in the region, LDC disbursements remain low
Commercial bank branches ATMs
        Aid for trade commitments and  disbursements for a given country, subregion
Asia-Pacific commitments .
Asia-Pacific disbursements .
LDCs commitments .
LDCs disbursements .
Commitments and disbursements for aid for trade, Asia and the Pacific and LDCs total, $ billion, -
  or region are Official Development Assistance (ODA) that is committed and disbursed for that territory.
  Aid for trade for Asia and the Pacific rose
steadily over the period -. There
were a number of downturns in commitments.  Actual disbursements were lower but with
steady growth. Less than one fifth of this aid,
however, has been going to the least
developed countries.
