      Goal Fourteen calls for conserving and sustainably using oceans, seas and marine resources. Careful management of these resources is a key feature of a sustainable future. Oceans and seas are crucial component of the planet's ecosystem. Marine resources are important for global nutrition and to the livelihoods of people living in coastal areas. Currently, data needed to track progress in meeting targets are sparse for this Goal. Highlights of the baseline status of the region use limited data on threats from overuse and pollution and governments' efforts to protect marine areas and monitor \0x2018integrated local threats' to coral reefs.
Territorial waters under protection
Percentage of national marine areas protected in the Asia-Pacific region,  and 
   increased
          
Marine areas in the Asia-Pacific region have to be protected more effectively to sustain biodiversity
Marine resources are increasingly threatened by climate change and by human activities, so governments have been trying to protect them. Between  and , on average across the region the proportion of the total territorial waters under protection increased from around % to % at the country level.
However, this may not be a sufficient improvement to preserve marine biodiversity because the change has largely happened in a few countries, mostly small island states. The region's two largest countries, India and China, and the Russian Federation have experienced no change over the past  years.
 Fishery as a percentage of GDP
 Over % of the world's
    total marine capture
areas. The world's top five countries accounting for more than % of \0x2018mismanaged' plastics in the oceans are from and the Middle East are above the global average for both thermal stress and local threats.
Integrated threat to coral reefs and severe thermal stress, by region
    Some countries depend heavily on fisheries for food and for export income
In , Asian countries constituted over % of the world's total marine capture. Over the period -, the largest increases in output were for Myanmar (%) and Viet Nam (%). For some Pacific Island states fisheries account for an increasing proportion of export income. Between the periods - and -, export income for Tuvalu and Kiribati saw -fold and -fold increases, respectively. And export income from fisheries was % of all exports for Marshall Islands.
The world's top five countries accounting for more than % of \0x2018mismanaged' plastics in the oceans are from Asia and the Pacific
Ocean ecosystems are increasingly being contaminated with plastic debris and microplastics -- small plastic particles, generally less than one millimetre in diameter. The concentration is much higher in coastal
The most threatened coral reef area of the world is located in the Asia-Pacific region
Coral reefs, are the "rain forests of the sea", supporting not only local fisheries and tourism, but also global marine biodiversity. In , % of the coral reef areas globally were moderately or highly threatened by "integrated local threats" -- namely coastal development, watershed-based pollution, marine-based pollution and damage, and overfishing and destructive fishing.
Around % of reefs are exposed to severe thermal stress including warming sea temperatures, which can induce widespread coral bleaching. Much of Australia's Great Barrier Reef is under threat.
The South-East Asia subregion has the lowest thermal stress but the highest risk of integrated local threats. The Indian Ocean
Integrated local thermal stress threatened
Threatened (integrated local threats)
Severe thermal stress
% of the coral reef areas at risk
