                                                                                      Goal Seven calls for universal access to modern and clean energy, improving energy efficiency and decreasing negative environmental impact of energy use. Highlights of the baseline status of the region cover three important aspects of the goal: increasing access to energy services, increasing share of renewable energy and improving energy efficiency. Although more data is needed for comprehensive assessment of the progress towards this goal, the trends indicate that with the right policy focus, including on energy efficiency and renewable energy invest- ments, it will be possible to meet the targets without jeopardizing the achievement of the thema- tically related targets on climate change.
        Over  million people in the region still have no access to electricity
Between  and , the proportion of the Asia-Pacific population with access to electricity rose from % to %. The greatest progress was in South and South-West Asia at  percentage points. North and Central Asia achieved universal access.
Nevertheless, over  million people in the Asia-Pacific region still have no access.
Moreover, even those people with access are using relatively small amounts of electricity. Supplies may be erratic or expensive. Residential consumption per capita in the Asia-Pacific region is only around half the global average -- and is particularly low in the LDCs where the average is only around one twentieth of that in the region's high-income economies.
Every other person living
in the Asia-Pacific region
is exposed to health
hazards in their home
when cooking as a result of relying on unclean fuels or inefficient technology
Cooking with dirty fuels and inefficient technology causes indoor air pollution and is a major health hazard. Between  and
Access to electricity,  and , percentage
of the population
 Residential electricity consumption, kWh per capita,  and 
  High- YEAR LDCs income
LDCs
High-income
           , the proportion of the region's population with access to clean cooking fuels rose from %, but only to %. From only  per cent in ,  per cent of the South-East Asian population relied on clean fuels and technology in . Migration to cities has also helped, since urban areas generally offer access to less polluting alternatives.
            
               % of population

 Reliance on clean fuels and technology for cooking, percentage of population,  and 

To meet the renewable energy target, the region needs substantial expansion of renewable energy generating capacity
Despite impressive increases in the region's renewable energy production from  to  the share of renewable energy in overall energy supply of the region has declined. There were particularly large declines in South-East Asia ( to  per cent) and South and South-West Asia ( to  per cent).
Nevertheless there is good news about investment in renewable energy capacity. In  at the global level, investment in renewable energy surpassed investment in fossil fuel-based technology.
In Asia and the Pacific, the expansion of renewable energy capacity has been particularly impressive for technologies that exploit solar and wind energy for generating electricity. China is the world leader and Japan and India are also in the world's top five in terms of solar and wind electricity generating capacity.

growth in total primary energy supply (TPES). SDG target . is to double the rate of improvement in energy efficiency, so the region is off to a promising start: between the periods - and - the rate of improvement increased threefold, from % to %.
Energy supply per unit of GDP, Asia and the Pacific, indexed to the year 
 Renewable electric power capacity, solar PV and wind power, top five countries in the world, GW 
As the region's output has increased, its energy intensity has declined
A country's energy efficiency can be tracked through its \0x2018energy intensity' -- how much energy is being used to generate each unit of economic output. A high energy intensity can
   make it more environmentally growth.
difficult to sustainable
achieve economic
It is, however, also important to take into account the country's economic structure. For example, all other factors being equal a country with a large manufacturing sector would consume more energy per unit of GDP than a country with a large service sector. So this indicator needs to be interpreted carefully when being used to inform policy decisions.
The figure shows how the region's energy intensity fell as GDP growth outpaced the
   GDP (PPP) 
 Energy intensity 

% of population
