                                                                                Goal Twelve stresses that achieving economic growth and sustainable development requires that we reduce our ecological footprint -- changing the way we produce and consume goods. Sustainable consumption and production aims to increase net welfare gains from economic activities by reducing resource use, degradation and pollution; actions need to be taken by busi- ness, consumers, policy makers, researchers, among others. Highlights of the baseline status of the region are based on data on domestic material consumption, material extraction and intensi- ty and sustainability reporting by business. Other aspects of sustainable consumption and production are considered under Goal  (energy) and Goal  (solid waste).
 Between  and , per capita consumption of natural resources in the Asia-Pacific region increased by %
Domestic material consumption measures the amount of natural resources used in economic production processes in a country.
In , Asia and the Pacific produced about  tonnes of materials for every person, which is comparable to the world average. Between  and , this average increased across the region by % -- mostly in upper middle-income economies, which used six times as much materials per person as low-income economies.
Asia and the Pacific accounts for around half the world's materials extraction. Most of this consists of non-metal ores
Between  and , as Asia-Pacific countries increased local extraction, construction and imports of finished goods, the total material footprint more than doubled, from  billion tonnes to  billion tonnes.
Domestic material consumption per capita (tonnes per capita), Asian and Pacific income groups,  and 
    Low- 
. Income    .
Lower middle-    . Income    .
Upper middle-  Income 
High  Income 
     Note: Domestic material consumption measures the total amount of materials directly used by an economy. It is defined as the annual quantity of raw materials extracted from the domestic territory, plus all physical imports and minus all physical exports.
Half of the region's material footprint consists of non-metal ores, such as limestone, which are primarily used for construction materials.
        
Material footprint by type (million tonnes),  and 
Fossil fuels
Non-metal ores Biomass
Metal ores
Values for some countries for  were estimated.
* Material footprint is the total quantity of biomass, fossil fuels, metal ores and non-metal ores extracted anywhere and consumed in a given country.
 Production in Asia and the Pacific is around twice as material intensive as the world average. Intensity is much greater in the low-income countries.
A country's material intensity is the material footprint per unit of GDP. For the region as a whole this grew by % between  and , to about . kilogrammes per unit of GDP. This is about twice the world average.
Low-income economies are . times more material intensive than high-income economies. This reflects both their relatively low levels of GDP and the higher rates of local extraction required to produce exports of biomass products.
Between  and , the material intensity of low-income countries increased by %. Over the same period, the materials intensity of high-income economies decreased by %.
The region produces around one-third of the world's corporate sustainability reports
Companies can demonstrate their progress in adopting sustainable practices through reports that comply with the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. In  the region contributed , of these reports, mostly from the high-income countries.

Material footprint, kg per unit of GDP, at  US dollar, Asia-Pacific income groups,  and 
Biomass
Non-metal ores
Fossil fuels
Metal ores
             Low-  Income 
Lower middle-  Income 
Upper middle-  Income 
High-  Income 
                                   Material use in low-income economies is dominated by biomass (crops, livestock and timber). High-income economies typically use a high proportion of non-metal ores.
Corporate sustainability reports, Asia- Pacific income groups, 
, reports
   lower middle- income 
lower middle- income

upper middle- income 
high-income 
 
