                                                  Goal Three tackles the "unfinished business" of the Millennium Declaration aimed at reducing child mortality, improving maternal health and fighting HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases. The goal looks more comprehensively to ensuring that all people live healthy lives free from disease and disability. Highlights of the baseline status of the region draws largely on indicators on infant and under- mortality and maternal mortality. Data on non-communicable diseases, including cardiovascular disease, and mental disorders, are currently much more limited in the region.
 Many women in the region still die from pregnancy- and birth-related causes
The Asia-Pacific region has made the greatest regional progress in reducing maternal mortality between  and . During this period, the maternal mortality ratio was halved. During this same period, the demand for family planning satisfied with modern methods increased.
Nevertheless, in , , women in the region died from pregnancy- and birth-related causes -- % of the global total. The greatest risks are in South and South-West Asia where the maternal mortality ratio is  per , live births.
An increasing proportion of child deaths occur during the first  days after birth
Between  and , the region's under- mortality rate declined by %. However, the mortality rate in the first  days of life decreased more slowly, and these \0x2018neonatal deaths' now account for an increasing proportion of child deaths.
Maternal mortality
  , women
Maternal mortality ratio,  and 
   
Under- and neonatal mortality rates, -
 
 
                  
       
SSWA Neonatal mortality rates World
 Under- mortality rates
    Under- mortality rates in the region remain
highest in South and South-West Asia. 

       deaths per , live births
per , live births

The region has had major success in combating malaria
Between  and , the incidence rate for malaria fell by % - in contrast to an eight-fold increase in the global rate.
Over this period, the incidence of tuberculosis fell by %, but the region still
A higher proportion of deaths are now from non-communicable diseases
As the global burden of infectious disease declines, an increasing proportion of deaths are attributable to non-communicable diseases (NCDs), such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes and chronic respiratory diseases.
In , NCDs accounted for % of deaths in Asia and the Pacific. Monitoring progress on NCDs prevalence will require continuous, reliable and accurate data on causes of death, from national civil registration and vital statistics systems (CRVS). In Asia and the Pacific, the \0x2018Get Every One in the Picture'
has the second highest incidence among world regions.
Malaria and TB incidence rates, -
Malaria incidence
TB incidence
initiative aims to ensure that by  everyone benefits from universal and responsive CRVS systems.
Causes of death,  and 
injuries
non-communicable diseases
communicable diseases

suicide .
mortality
per , population
Suicide rates by sex,  both sexes
FEMALE
                                       Asia-Pacific has the highest suicide rates among the world's regions
Suicide rates are high for both sexes but generally higher for men than women. In North and Central Asia, the male rate is five times the female rate. Around % of global suicides occur in low- and middle-income countries.
      
Road traffic deaths by subregion, per , people, 
   road traffic mortality

per , population
Asia-Pacific region, 
  Around % of all deaths in the region are due to injuries, notably from road traffic accidents. Road traffic death rates vary across the Asia-Pacific subregions. Thailand had the highest rate in  in the region, with a rate of  per , people.
