                                                 Goal Six addresses the issues relating to ensuring sustained availability and access to safe water and sanitation for all. Highlights of the baseline status of the region are based on analysis of indicators on access to safe drinking water and sanitation, water-use efficiency and integrated water resources management. Asia-Pacific has made huge strides in expanding access to improved water sources despite challenges of water contamination and large disparities. But, large sections of the population in the region still do not have access to improved sanitation.
Asia-Pacific population without access to improved water sources, percentage,  and 
Access to improved drinking water sources has improved but water contamination and disparities in access remain significant issues in the Asia-Pacific region
Between  and , the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water declined from .% to .%.
Progress has been mixed across the different sub-regions. The fastest progress was in East and North-East Asia -- by , only .% of the population had no access to safe
drinking water. There was much less success in North and Central Asia and in the Pacific where progress stalled.
Despite improvements, there are still substantial levels of contamination. Many water sources are contaminated with faecal matter, increasing the risk of water-borne diseases.
Moreover, wastewater resulting from human activities is often discharged into rivers or seas without pollution removal.*
Global population without access to improved water sources by country income level, percentage,
 and 
Low- Lower income- middle- income
Upper middle- income
High- World income
        
 From  to , the proportion of people without access to safe sanitation declined from % to %-- an additional  million people gained access.
Nevertheless, millions of people are still exposed to poor sanitation -- as many as  per cent of people in South and South-West Asia.
The situation in the Pacific is better. But while all the other subregions made progress
Water resources are under stress with significant implications on livelihoods
Fresh water is vital for human survival, but use of water for agriculture and industry, as well as wastage in delivering consumer supplies, is putting water resources under stress.
Water supplies are defined as under stress if total annual freshwater withdrawal exceeds % of total renewable water, and under severe stress if the proportion exceeds %. Data availability is currently sparse. The latest data () is available for only  countries in the region. Of these, water resources of two
Implementation of integrated water management plans are advancing overall but progress is uneven
Water shortages may not necessarily be caused by a lack of water resources but rather by excessive and poorly managed consumption and inefficiencies -- with widespread seepages and leaks. To address these issues all countries need integrated
. billion people in the region still need to gain access to improved sanitation facilities
between  and , the proportion without access in the Pacific increased slightly -- from % to %.
countries are under stress and one is already under severe stress.
Freshwater withdrawal as a proportion of available freshwater resources, Asia and the Pacific, around 
 . Billion People
   Target
(water stress)
(severe water stress)
                                                   No reported data
     Integrated water resources management in Asia and the Pacific, 
Not relevant
water management plans. Australia, for example, is the second driest continent but has very effective water management.**
In this respect, Asia and the Pacific has made substantial progress:  out of  countries with reported data have been developing water management plans, though only a few have reached the stage of advanced implementation.
              Under development
 Developed but not implemented
 Started implementing
 Advanced Implementation
 Fully implemented
  
