                                                   Goal Ten takes the clarion call to leave-no-one-behind to discussions of reducing inequality in its various manifestations--income; social, economic and political inclusion; and policy-derived exclusion, among others. The Goal also addresses issues of inequalities among countries along the dimensions of representation, migration and development assistance. Highlights of the baseline status of the region are based on indicators of income inequality, labour compensation and cost of sending remittances. While key data gaps exist, the available data suggest a mixed trend for income inequality: falling in some respects in some countries, but rising in others.
Within-country inequalities: rate of income growth of the bottom %, versus the average rate of national income growth
Bottom %
Overall population
                                                
Decreasing inequality
 countries  billion people
Increasing inequality
 countries . billion people

 Income inequality is falling in many countries, but rising in some of the most populous ones
Income inequality becomes smaller within a country when income growth is faster among the poorest population. Over the period -, for  countries in Asia and the Pacific with available data, the incomes of the poorest % of the population grew faster
Labour share of GDP disparities are widening
The labour share of GDP represent the compensation to employers as a percentage of GDP. Compensation includes wages and social insurance contributions payable by the employer and provides an aggregate measure of primary income inequality. A higher proportion of GDP going to workers suggests a higher level of equality.
For  countries with data, disparities in labour share of GDP increased from a range of % in  to % in .
Cost of sending remittances to developing countries in the region has fallen-- but not enough
In , according to the World Bank, nearly half of a trillion dollars in migrant remittances was transferred from developed countries to developing countries.
However, these remittances are reduced in value by the costs of transferring funds hence, reducing transaction costs to less than % of remittances and eliminating remittance corridors with costs higher than % by  has been set as a target.
From  to , the cost associated with sending $ to a typical receiving country in the region fell from . % to . % of the total amount of the remittance.
than the incomes of the overall national population. In three of these countries, the poorest population experienced the fastest growth. They were Kazakhstan (.%), Cambodia (.%), and Nepal (.%).
For seven countries, on the other hand, income inequality rose over this period. These include the two most populous countries, India and China.
Diverging labour shares among countries
 Cost of sending $ to Asia-Pacific countries,  - 
Remittance Cost of remittance
