                                           Goal One calls for an end to poverty in all forms and dimensions. Highlights of the baseline status of the region are based on available data on poverty dimensions-- focusing on the preva- lence of income poverty, as measured by number of persons living on less than $. a day and zeros in on the status of the working population. The analysis also highlights the population cov- ered by social protection benefits, including social assistance and social insurance and govern- ment expenditures on health and education services -- key enabling factors for poverty reduc- tion. Despite significant progress made in the past decades, Asia and the Pacific region is still home to more than half of the world's extremely poor population.
More than half of the world's extremely poor population lives in the Asia-Pacific region
The international poverty line is $. per person per day, using  purchasing power parity. Between the periods - and -, the proportion of the world's population living in poverty decreased from .% to .%.
Of the world's  million poor people,  million live in Asia and the Pacific. The extent of poverty differs significantly across the region -- from .% in the Pacific (excluding Australia and New Zealand and largely due to Papua New Guinea) to .% in East and North-East Asia.
Poverty rate in Asia and the Pacific, percentage
Percentage of population living on less than $. a day, by subregion

The rate in East and North-East Asia has improved significantly in recent times largely due to the significant decrease in poverty in China.
 
Employed persons in LDCs are far more likely to be living in poverty, than employedpersonsinnon-LDCs
Poverty rates of employed persons are far
higher in LDCs, at . per cent, compared to just . per cent for the Asia-Pacific region as a whole. This figure for LDCs has however, been decreasing since , when
 
 Percentage of working population living on less than $. a day ( PPP)
it was as high as . per cent. The South and South-West Asia sub-region has the highest rate of employed persons living in poverty at . per cent in the period -, with the lowest rates for the corresponding period in East and North-East Asia (. per cent) and North and Central Asia (. per cent).
Persons living in LDCs of the Asia-Pacific region are far less likely than non-LDCs to receive social assistance and social insurance
Only  per cent of people in LDCs receive social assistance. And persons living in LDCs are  times less likely to receive social insurance payments compared to persons living in non-LDCs.
In the LDCs the proportion of government expenditure devoted to health is less than half that in the other countries of the region
Over the period -, governments of LDCs allocated % of government expenditure to health, compared to % for other countries in the region. However, there were significant differences between subregions, with the proportions ranging from %-% in the Pacific to %-% in South and South-West Asia.
This trend is reversed to some extent for expenditures in education. LDCs on average allocated % of government expenditure to education, while the other countries on average allocated %.
 Percentage of population receiving social protection, -
  Social insurance
  Social assistance refers to the assistance rendered by a government to persons without requiring them to make contributions to be entitled to benefits.
Social insurance refers to payments made from funds created by contributions from employees and employers, with or without a subsidy from the government.
For the non-LDC figure, data are not available for India and China for social insurance, nor for China for social assistance.
 Percentage of government spending on education and health,  - 
 Education Health
Government expenditure on health
