                                                        Goal Seventeen calls for enhanced global partnerships to implement the  development agenda. The aim is to mobilize all available resources for sustainable and efficient financing for development; address systemic issues including strengthening data, monitoring and accounta- bility, promote sustainable financing, facilitate equitable access to technology, target capacity needs, and promote equitable trade.
Proportion of SDG indicators with available data for  by SDGs for Asia and the Pacific
permit regional aggregation for following up and reviewing the SDGs in Asia and the Pacific, governments will need sufficient data on relevant indicators. Collecting reliable and disaggregated statistics will benefit from national strategies for statistical development. These strategies can be guided by an effective user-producer dialogue, based on data needs for monitoring national policy priorities.
No data available on over % of the SDGs indicators
According to the ESCAP statistical database, aggregate data at the Asia-Pacific region can be produced for less than % of the proposed  SDG indicators. Under all the other  SDGs, except for indicators on affordable and clean energy (Goal ), less than % of the official indicators can be monitored at the regional level. In order to
         
 Strategic planning for statistical development continues to be a low priority in most Asia-Pacific statistical systems
In , out of  countries that reported on their national statistical plans, only  had plans that were fully funded and under implementation.
Statistical development requires sustainable and targeted resource mobilization. The Partner Report on Support to Statistics (PRESS), published by PARIS, presents data on the ongoing financial support to statistical development provided by multilateral and bilateral donors covering all areas of statistics. According to PRESS, in , all the resources made available to strengthen statistical capacity in developing countries in
Number of countries with National statistical plans fully funded and under implementation, 
National statistical
plans()        
the Asia-Pacific region added up to $ million. The LDCs received % of this. Distribution of the funds across statistical systems in the region between  and  shows an uneven allocation. This is most likely the consequence of major statistical operations such as population housing censuses, or the changing political landscape for foreign aid. For instance, in  Bangladesh received % of the total assistance received by developing countries in the region, and in  it received %, which is more than  times higher than assistance received by Bangladesh in previous years. Similarly, in , % of the financial resources for the region was received by the Viet Nam statistical system and in , % went to Myanmar.
Financing to strengthen statistical capacity
The debt service ratio increase in the region after 
The total debt service ratio is a key measure for an economy's debt burden. Between  and , all subregions in Asia and the Pacific managed to significantly reduce their debt service as a proportion of export incomes. One of the main reasons for this was the increase in earnings from exports of goods and services by the region's middle- and low-income economies. Subsequently, between  and , the debt service ratio increased in all the country income groups. However, it decreased significantly in LDCs, mainly due to a sharp increase in export earnings in Myanmar. In low-income countries, policy measures can help reduce debt distress and improve financial sustainability include debt relief, efficient debt management and access to
international capital markets with more attractive borrowing options.
Debt service as a proportion of total exports of goods, services and primary income (%)
       
   Different income groups get very different levels of internet access
Over the past decade, in the upper-middle-income economies of the region the number of internet users as a percentage of the population has increased by more than  percentage points -- and is above the world average.
Internet users, Asia-Pacific income groups and the world, -
 
However,
economies
remained
low-income economies below %.
in lower-middle-income the proportion has
below %, and
in
The region's access to internet remained slightly below the world average in . Subscribing to the internet continues to be unaffordable to people in the region's lower-middle-income economies. The contrasts in quality of access reflect considerable differences in ICT infrastructure. For  Mbit/s fixed internet broadband, the rate of subscription in high-income countries, at %, is three times higher than in upper middle income economies, at %. High-quality internet is almost inaccessible to people living in lower- and lower-middle-income economies.
% of population

Fixed internet broadband subscriptions, by speed, Asia-Pacific income groups and the world, 
Despite progress made, LDCs continue to hold a small share of the region's total exports of goods and services
Between  and , Asia-Pacific LDCs
doubled their share of the region's total exports 
of goods and services. Nevertheless, in ,  .% that share was still less than % of the region's
total exports. A major hurdle for exports from  .%
these economies is the high cost of trade. This
can be reduced through measures for trade
facilitation. In , developing countries
exported % of the goods and services 
produced in the region. This represented a major 
increase since , mainly due to increasing
demand from emerging economies. Between
 and , the Asia-Pacific region increased
its share of total world exports of goods and
services, from % to %, driven mainly by the
success of major export-oriented economies
such as China.
per  population
Share of Asia-Pacific total exports of goods and services (%)
   Share of Asia-Pacific from the world exports (%)
LDC
Developing countries
