 
Goal Thirteen calls for action to combat climate change and its impacts as well as to build resil- ience to climate-related hazards and natural disasters. Data needed to track progress in meeting targets are sparse for this Goal; information on these pages focuses on resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters. For the purpose of this baseline assessment, these are defined as disasters caused by climatological, hydrological and meteoro- logical hazards. Highlights of the baseline status of the region are based on data on climate-change related disasters and an indicator counting national strategies for disaster risk reduction.
The  climate-related disasters that occurred in the Asia-Pacific region in - accounted for % of global disasters
Not all natural disasters or hazards are climate change-related. However, as an approximation, climate-related disasters are associated with climatological, hydrological and meteorological hazards. Broadly speaking, these are the hazards that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has indicated as likely to become more frequent, more severe, and more unpredictable as a result of climate change.
In the Asia-Pacific region,  per cent of the climate-related disasters occurred in East and North-East Asia and South-East Asia.
Number of climate change-related disaster occurrences, -
Deaths per occurrence of climate change-related disasters, -
Note: This baseline assessment covers the most recent five-year period (-). The selection of time period can considerably affect the results. For example, the heat wave disaster in the Russian Federation in  accounted for , deaths, which represented around % of total climate-related disaster deaths in Asia and the Pacific in that year (a major departure from subsequent years). In combination with this kind of broad, regional-level baseline analyses, it is important therefore to analyse data for individual countries, at-risk areas, and after each disaster occurrence.
The  deaths per climate- related disaster in Asia and the Pacific is  more than the global average
Over the period -, a climate-related disaster in South and South-West Asia resulted in  deaths on average-- the highest in the region. However, this analysis is sensitive to the chosen time period. There can be dramatic year-to-year fluctuations because of the randomness of extreme natural events. It is also important to note that the death toll reflects not just the severity of the events but also the capacity of the society to manage the impact and to respond.
Only around one-third of Asia-Pacific countries report that they have disaster risk-reduction strategies
Though the Asia-Pacific region is the world's most disaster-prone region, only  out of  countries are known to have legislative or regulatory provisions for reducing disaster risk.
A note on data
The Hyogo Framework of Action has been succeded by the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction - which outlines seven clear targets and four priorities. The Monitoring programme for the Sendai Framework should greatly improve the coverage and quality of information and analysis of risk reduction interventions, especially for countries that are highly vulnerable to climate -related disasters.
The availability of data should also be improved as a result of the Climate Policy Initiative which collect statistics on global climate change financial flows. This could be utilized for monitoring progress to meeting financial commitments made under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Deaths per occurrence of climate change-related disasters, Asia-Pacific, subregions -
Number of countries with national and local disaster risk reduction strategies
with strategies
  Source: Hyogo Framework of Action Monitoring Study (UNISDR). The study covered the period -.

  without strategies/

