                                                                     Goal Nine sets targets for three important aspects of sustainable development: infrastructure, industrialization and innovation. Highlights of the baseline status of the region are based on avail- able data-- on sustainable industrialization: manufacturing share of value added as share of GDP and CO emission and on fostering innovation: research and development expenditure as a share of GDP. The analysis also highlights access to mobile networks as an indicator of infra- structure development.
  Industrialization: Minus the rapid growth of the three largest economies in East Asia, regional growth in manufacturing value added as a proportion of GDP has been stagnant and below the world average
Between  and , manufacturing as a proportion of value added grew by % in the Asia-Pacific region compared with only % for the world as a whole. However, most of this was due to rapid growth in East and North-East Asia.
Excluding China, Japan and the Republic of Korea, the region's share of manufacturing value added in GDP was stagnant over this period, and was below the world average in .
Infrastructure: Carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP declined by  per cent over the last two decades in the Asia-Pacific region but still remains higher than the world average
Carbon dioxide emissions in the region have fallen, but in  still averaged  grams per unit of GDP, compared with the global average of  grams per unit.
North and Central Asia had the highest carbon dioxide intensity but also recorded the highest decline from  levels. LDCs, on the other hand, as a result of rising industrialization, have substantially increased their emissions intensity.
Change in manufacturing share of value added from -, percentage
Change in carbon dioxide Intensity between  and , unit of GDP ( PPP)
Infrastructure: The Asia-Pacific has disparities in mobile network coverage
Between  and , the proportion of the Asia-Pacific population covered by mobile-cellular networks grew from % to %.
Mobile phone coverage is generally high; lowest coverage is the  per cent for North and Central Asia.
However, coverage in terms of newer network technology (G older, LTE newer) varies across subregions, with greater disparity in the newer technologies.
Innovation: Low income economies in Asia-Pacific region invest very little in research and development
Investments in research and development spur innovation and the growth of sustainable industries.
In , Asia-Pacific research and development (R&D) expenditures was  per cent of GDP; this was higher than the global ratio of . per cent. Upper Middle income economies doubled their R&D expenditure share from . per cent in  to . per cent in .
The share or R&D expenditure to total GDP of the high income economies in the Asia-Pacific region was twice that of upper middle income economies and six times more than that of lower and lower middle income economies.
Population covered by a mobile-cellular network, G and higher, percentage of population in Asia and the Pacific and subregions and LDCs, 
Mobile-cellular networks
LTE/ WiMAX
                            
             Research and Development Expenditure as a share of GDP (%)
low &
lower middle
upper middle income
high income

