                                      Goal Two sets targets for the interlinked challenges of eradicating hunger, improving nutrition and increasing food production in a sustainable way. Highlights of the baseline status of the region on nutrition are based on available data on undernourishment, stunting and malnutrition. The analysis of agricultural sustainability is based on indicators of agricultural productivity and public investment in the sector. Assessing the sustainability aspect of the goal cannot currently be adequately done as further statistical methodological work needs to be carried out for a number of related indicators.
  out of  undernourished people
live in Asia and the Pacific
                 Between  and , the proportion of  the population undernourished in Asia and
the Pacific fell significantly. In South-East Asia, the proportion fell by  percentage

Proportion of population undernourished, Asia and the Pacific and subregions, -

          points.
Nevertheless, Asia and the Pacific still
accounts for a high proportion of global
hunger: in , of the world's  million undernourished people, nearly  million
lived in this region. Many are in South and
South-West Asia, where progress appeared  to stall. In , around % of the
    subregion's population --  million people were undernourished.
Asia and the Pacific is home to nearly half of both the stunted and the overweight children in the world
Stunting is an indicator of underweight and is measured by low-height-for-age. Between  and , the proportion of under- children who were stunted fell from % to %. However, this still left the region with around  million stunted under-fives -- more than half of the global total. South and South-West Asia, accounted for % of the stunted in the region in .
In the world as a whole in , the proportion of children overweight was .%. In this region it was .%, but the problem is increasing: between  and , the number of overweight children rose by %.
Asia-Pacific, 
            % of population

Stunted and overweight, Asia-Pacific and the world, -


  World stunted, 
    Asia-Pacific stunted, 
    
 
World overweight, 
  Asia- Pacific overweight,
    
 
 Agricultural productivity of high-income countries in the region is  times higher more than that of LDCs
Productivity is measured as total value added in agriculture (in  US dollars) divided by the number of people employed. In Asia and the Pacific this ranges from $, per worker in high-income countries to $ in the least developed countries. Moreover, the gap has been widening.
Between  and , while agricultural productivity in the high-income countries doubled, in the least developed countries it increased by only %.
The rate of growth of government spending on agriculture in the region has slowed down since the food price crisis period
Most investment in agriculture comes from the private sector but greater investment by governments spurs private sector investment.
During the period -, government expenditure on agriculture across Asia and the Pacific averaged .% of total government expenditure. But over the period -, the proportion rose to .%. Most of this increase was in the region's developing countries.
Government spending appears to have been influenced by the global food price crisis in -. In developing countries, the share of government spending in agriculture increased rapidly between the periods - and -, but slowed down since the food price crisis period.
Agricultural productivity, Asia -Pacific and the world, $ thousands,  and 
   
               . .
   Government expenditure on agriculture as a propor- tion of total government expenditure, -

Million children
