                                              Goal Four aims to ensure access to and completion of quality education for all children and youth. Highlights of the baseline status of the region are based on analysis of indicators on access to education, for which data quality and availability are generally good and on limited data on quality of education. The available data shows that the Asia and Pacific region has a long way to go to improve access and quality of education for all. The region has made tremendous progress in expanding educational opportunities at various levels of schooling, but many countries are yet to provide free and compulsory pre-primary education of good quality. Relatively large numbers of youths in some countries are excluded from schooling, and the majority of those in school do not possess minimum proficiency in reading, mathematical and scientific literacy.
    Number of out-of-school children, 
primary school age
lower secondary school age
upper secondary school age
  The region has over half of the world's out-of-school children and youth
Asia and the Pacific has had significant success in expanding participation in school especially for primary education. By , primary net enrolment was over %. The fastest progress was in South and West Asia: between  and  primary net enrolment increased from % to %. Over
For many countries in the region, the challenge is not only making education accessible to all children and youth but also ensuring quality education for all
The most extensive global assessment of educational outcomes is the OECD Programme for International Student Assessment, which tests -year-olds in  school systems around the world, of which

the same period, the global rate increased from % to %.
Nevertheless,  million children were still out of school in  --  million were of primary school age,  million of lower secondary school age, and  million of upper secondary school age. The majority of these children were in South and West Asia.
 are in Asia and the Pacific.
In a typical school system about six out of ten students in  had the minimum level of proficiency in mathematics and reading. Of the  Asia-Pacific countries,  showed better-than-average results, with around % of students possessing the minimum levels of proficiency in mathematics and reading.
          
Percentage of students reaching minimum proficiency level in mathematics, 
  
The low level of achieving proficiency in mathematics and reading, and the high 
Global median of coverage of national -year+old population
     Global mathematics
 median
   In the other six countries, between % and
% of students met the minimum standard
in mathematics and % to % in reading. 
 
 number of out-of-school children in a considerable number of school systems in the region suggest that these systems are not preparing the majority of students well for the basic knowledge skills that are required for continuous learning.
Asia-Pacific region needs to expand opportunities for organized learning for children in their early years
The gross enrolment ratio for pre-primary education in Asia and the Pacific was . per cent in , slightly lower than the global average of . per cent.
Pre-primary school aged children in the East
and North East Asia region and in the Pacific, NCA have relatively higher opportunities for organized learning to prepare them for primary school compared with their counterparts in other regions.
Gross enrolment in tertiary education and gender parity index (GPI),  and 
Between  and , gross enrolment
ratios in tertiary education in the region
increased from % to %. The region now SEA accounts for  per cent of all global tertiary
students. The most significant growth ENEA occurred in East and North-East Asia, though
participation is still highest in North and
Central Asia and the Pacific. NCA
      
Coverage index : Coverage of national - year + old population
 Gross enrolment ratio of pre-primary education,  or latest
    World expanding participation in tertiary Asia &
  Asia and the Pacific made great leaps in education 
                          Women in particular have benefited and, in the region as a whole, now outnumber men in tertiary institutions, with a gender parity index (GPI) of .. The GPI is less than one only in South and South-West Asia.
