                                                                            Goal Eleven aims to ensure well-being of the ever increasing urban population-setting targets for a decent quality of life for all, shared prosperity and social stability, building resilience to mini- mize human and economic losses in the face of effects of natural disasters and climate change-without harming the environment. Highlights of the baseline status of the region draw mainly on data on access to basic services by urban and slum populations, waste generation and air pollution.
If current trends continue, by  . billion of the Asia-Pacific region's population will be urban dwellers
Asia-Pacific: urban population trends and projections
Half the world's  billion urban dwellers live in  Asia and the Pacific. Between  and ,  the urban share of the Asia-Pacific population  is expected to rise from % to % with the
      billion to . billion. The increases will be  .
more); by , it will have  of the , and  the seven with the largest populations.
number of urban dwellers rising from .
  higher in the region's developing economies.
 Currently, the region has  of the world's   megacities (with  million inhabitants or 
  Urban areas typically have lower poverty rates than rural areas
Data on poverty rates disaggregated by urban/rural are infrequently available for countries in the region. Poverty rates from the three most populous countries in the region for the latest year show that poverty rate are typically higher in rural areas.
Urban vs. rural: share of population living on less than $. a day ( PPP), percentage
Urban     Rural
         Total urban population (billions)
Share of urban populuation (%)

In , around  million urban dwellers in the Asia-Pacific region lived in slums
Since , the proportion of the region's urban populations living in slums has come down to about one quarter. This still means that around  million people in the Asia Pacific region live in slums, typically in poor-quality housing with insecure residential status, and inadequate access to safe water and sanitation.
Municipal solid waste generation, tonnes per capita per day, 
Asia-Pacific urban population living in slums, ,  and 
total urban
living in slums
share of urban population
  
Rising urban populations will put even more strain on waste management
Waste generation has major implications for public health and the environment. In  Asia-Pacific cities and municipalities produced . million tonnes of solid waste per day -- . kilograms per person.
Waste generation differs by subregion. This partly reflects geographic conditions, particularly for the Pacific. But it is also influenced by the stages of economic development since more developed countries tend to produce more waste. As countries across the region become richer, waste generation is therefore likely to rise.
Rising vehicle ownership in urban areas is contributing to high levels of air pollution in cities
WHO recommends that the annual mean concentration of dangerous fine particulate matter, of . micrometres or less (PM.), should be less than  micrograms per cubic metre of air.
Over the period -, of the  Asia-Pacific countries that had data, only Brunei Darussalam, Australia, New Zealand, Maldives and Japan met that standard.
   Source: World Bank, What a Waste: A Global Review of Solid Waste Management, Washington D.C, 
 Annual mean concentration of PM. in cities, micrograms per cubic metre, Asia-Pacific countries, -
      
PM. WHO recommended maximum level
