                                    Agenda  emphasizes that the promotion of gender equality is a cross-cutting issue to be addressed across all goals either as an objective by itself (Goal ) or as essential to achieving the various goals. Goal Five expands the coverage of dimensions of gender equality and empowerment of women and girls of the Millennium Declaration to areas of discrimination and violence against women and girls, inequalities in opportunities in the labour market and leader- ship at all levels of decision making and in all spheres and the division of labour in unpaid care and domestic work, and access to sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights. High- lights of the baseline status of the region on goal  are based on the analyses of indicators on violence against women, early and forced marriage, women's participation in decision making and unpaid domestic and care work. Tracking progress on gender equality across all goals is currently constrained by the lack of gender statistics in some key areas, including poverty and environment.
    Proportion of ever-partnered women and girls aged  years and older subjected to physical and/or sexual violence by a current or former intimate partner in the previous  months
On average*, .% of women aged  years or older in  countries in Asia and the Pacific have been subjected to physical or sexual violence by an intimate partner.
The reported rates are generally lower in South-East Asia.
Across the  Pacific countries, the proportion ranges from  to over  per cent.
* Aggregate is based on data from  countries between  and .
         Almost a quarter
of women in some countries in the Asia-Pacific region were physically or sexually abused by an intimate partner
No data on ENEA
     
         
Almost half of women in Asia-Pacific countries for which data are available were married or in union before age 
At the regional level, the proportion of women aged  to  years who were married or in a union before  years was .%, and between  and  years it was % -- significantly higher than the global averages of % and % respectivly.
South and South-West Asia accounts for a large proportion of this. On average, three in every  women aged - in this subregion were married or in union before reaching the age of  and another eight before they were  years old.
Women absorb the burden of unpaid domestic and care work across countries, regardless of the level of development
Target . calls for recognizing and valuing unpaid care work and domestic work by putting in place services and social protection policies and promoting shared responsibility. Such work includes cooking, cleaning and taking care of children and older people.
Data on unpaid domestic and care work is available for  countries between  and . Women spent between . and  hours per day on unpaid work, while men spent only between  minutes and . hours per day.
This disparity is evident not just in the low-income countries but also in the upper middle- and high-income countries.
Women remain underrepresented in political leadership and managerial positions
In , only about % of seats in national parliaments in Asia-Pacific countries were held by women -- up from % in . The least improvement was in the Pacific and the
Proportion of seats held by women
Proportion of women aged - years who were married or in a union, before age  or before age 
 Married before age 
 Married before age 
 countries; and "before " from  countries
Proportion of time spent on unpaid domestic and care work, by sex
Aggregates are based on data between  and : for "before " from
 Data available between  and 
managerial positions
national parliaments and local governments
no data available
most was in North and Central Asia.
Data from  countries between  and  indicate that the percentage of women in senior and middle-management positions in governments, large enterprises and institutions was generally higher than women's representation in national and local political posts.
Nevertheless, in these countries less than half of such management positions were filled by women.

Proportion of seats held by women in national parliaments and local governments
               or earliest
    