Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable
With rapid urbanization, many cities are facing challenges in managing population growth, ensuring that there is adequate housing and resilient infrastructure to support these growing populations and addressing the environmental impacts of expanding cities and vulnerability to disasters. From 1990 to 2014, the proportion of the global urban population living in slums was halved, from 46 per cent to 23 per cent. However, with rapid migration to cities and corresponding increases in the global urban population, the actual number of people living in slums increased from 689 million to 883 million.Globally, as cities are absorbing more inhabitants, they are also becoming less dense. The average rate of physical expansion of cities is about one and a half times that of population growth. The regions that are experiencing the most rapid urban expansion  Eastern and South-Eastern Asia, sub-Saharan Africa and Central and Southern Asia  are also recording the highest ratios. Some of the forces driving this urban expansion include rising per capita incomes, cheaper agricultural lands on the outskirts of cities, more efficient transport and the proliferation of informal settlements. Managing solid waste continues to be a challenge in many regions, with significant and adverse effects from uncollected waste in cities, including direct and indirect effects on the health of residents and the environment. Notwithstanding the quality and efficiency of collection, according to data collected for 214 cities/ municipalities, about three quarters of municipal solid waste generated is collected. The collection of solid waste is a particular challenge in cities in sub-Saharan Africa, where less than 50 per cent of all municipal waste is collected. In 2016, 91 per cent of the urban population still breathed air that did not meet the WHO air quality guidelines value for particulate matter (PM 2.5) and more than half was exposed to air pollution levels at least 2.5 times above that safety standard. Unplanned and rapid urbanization and poor land management, together with non-risk informed policies and investments are major underlying risk drivers of disaster mortality. From 1990 to 2013, almost 90 per cent of mortality attributed to internationally reported disasters occurred in low and middle-income countries, many of which have seen rapid urban expansion in recent years. Countries continue to make efforts to adopt and implement national and local disaster risk reduction strategies that are in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 20152030. In 2017, of the 87 Member States that responded to the questionnaire, 50 countries reported that they have national disaster risk reduction strategies and 34 reported they have local strategies. Furthermore, in 2015, of 95 countries, 84 reported investing in drainage infrastructure in flood-prone areas. Some 55 to 64 countries had introduced a combination of measures, including urban and land use planning, building codes and other risk-informed regulations.
