Indicator 4.a.1: Proportion of schools with access to: (a) electricity; (b) the Internet for pedagogical purposes; (c) computers for pedagogical purposes; (d) adapted infrastructure and materials for students with disabilities; (e) basic drinking water; (f) single-sex basic sanitation facilities; and (g) basic handwashing facilities (as per the WASH indicator definitions)
Target 4.a: Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive and provide safe, non-violent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all
Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
The indicator is defined as the percentage of schools by level of education (primary, lower secondary and upper secondary education) with access to the following facilities: 
(a) Electricity; (b) the Internet for pedagogical purposes; (c) computers for pedagogical purposes; (d) adapted infrastructure and materials for students with disabilities; (e) basic drinking water; (f) single-sex basic sanitation facilities; and (g) basic handwashing facilities. 
Concepts: 
Electricity means regularly and readily available sources of power (e.g. grid/mains connection, wind, water, solar and fuel-powered generator, etc.) that enable the adequate and sustainable use of ICT infrastructure for educational purposes. 
Internet access for pedagogical purposes refers to the use of the Internet to deliver instructional materials on a computer or through other devices, in accordance with learners’ pedagogical needs. Access implies that the Internet is available for enhancing teaching and learning and is accessible by pupils. Internet is defined as a worldwide interconnected computer network, which provides pupils access to a number of communication services including the World Wide Web and carries e-mail, news, entertainment and data files, irrespective of the device used (i.e. not assumed to be only via a computer and thus can also be accessed by mobile telephone, tablet, PDA, games machine, digital TV etc.). Access can be via a fixed narrowband, fixed broadband, or via mobile network. 
Computers for pedagogical purposes implies the use of computers to support course delivery or independent teaching and learning needs. This may include activities using computers to meet information needs for research purposes, develop presentations, perform hands-on exercises and experiments, share information, and participate in online discussion forums for educational purposes. It includes a desktop computer, a laptop computer and a tablet. 
Adapted infrastructure is defined as any built environment related to education facilities that are accessible to all users, including those with different types of disability, to be able to gain access to use and exit from them. Accessibility includes ease of independent approach, entry, evacuation and/or use of a building and its services and facilities (such as water and sanitation), by all the building's potential users with an assurance of individual health, safety and welfare during the course of those activities. 
Adapted materials include learning materials and assistive products that enable students and teachers with disabilities/functioning limitations to access learning and to participate fully in the school environment. 
Accessible learning materials include textbooks, instructional materials, assessments and other materials that are available and provided in appropriate formats such as audio, braille, sign language and simplified formats that can be used by students and teachers with disabilities/functioning limitations. 
Basic drinking water is defined as a functional drinking water source (MDG ‘improved’ categories) on or near the premises and water points accessible to all users during school hours. 
Single-sex basic sanitation facilities are defined as functional sanitation facilities (MDG ‘improved’ categories) separated for males and females on or near the premises. 
Basic handwashing facilities are defined as functional handwashing facilities, with soap and water available to all girls and boys. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
This indicator reflects the level of access in schools to key basic services and facilities that are necessary to ensure a safe and effective learning environment for all students. 
A high value indicates that schools have good access to the relevant services and facilities. Ideally, each school should have access to all these services and facilities. 
Data Sources and Collection Method
The data required to calculate this indicator are available through administrative records from schools and other providers of education and training. 
Ministries of Education or National Statistical Offices are typical sources of such data.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method: 
Divide the number of schools with access to the relevant facility in each level of education by the total number of schools for the same level of education and multiply the result by 100. 
The indicator, PSn,f at the level n of education with access to facility f is defined as follows:
￼
here 
Stn,f is the number of schools at level n of education with access to facility f in reference year t
Stnis the total number of schools at the level n of education in reference year t 
Comments and Limitations:
Nationally-published figures may differ from the international ones because of differences between national education systems and the International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED), or differences in coverage (i.e. the extent to which different types of education – e.g. private or special education – are included in one rather than the other). 
The indicator measures the existence in schools of the given service or facility but not its quality or operational state. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by level of education and location.
