SDG 4: Education
Obtaining a quality education is the foundation to creating sustainable development. In addition to improving quality of life, access to inclusive education can help equip locals with the tools required to develop innovative solutions to the worlds greatest problems.

Over 265 million children are currently out of school and 22% of them are of primary school age. Additionally, even the children who are attending schools are lacking basic skills in reading and math. In the past decade, major progress has been made towards increasing access to education at all levels and increasing enrollment rates in schools particularly for women and girls. Basic literacy skills have improved tremendously, yet bolder efforts are needed to make even greater strides for achieving universal education goals. For example, the world has achieved equality in primary education between girls and boys, but few countries have achieved that target at all levels of education.

The reasons for lack of quality education are due to lack of adequately trained teachers, poor conditions of schools and equity issues related to opportunities provided to rural children. For quality education to be provided to the children of impoverished families, investment is needed in educational scholarships, teacher training workshops, school building and improvement of water and electricity access to schools.

Enrolment in primary education in developing countries has reached 91 per cent but 57 million primary age children remain out of school.
More than half of children that have not enrolled in school live in sub-Saharan Africa.
An estimated 50 per cent of out-of-school children of primary school age live in conflict-affected areas.
617 million youth worldwide lack basic mathematics and literacy skills.
Goal 4 targets

ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality primary and secondary education leading to relevant and Goal-4 effective learning outcomes ensure that all girls and boys have access to quality early childhood development, care and preprimary education so that they are ready for primary education ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations ensure that all youth and a substantial proportion of adults, both men and women, achieve literacy and numeracy ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of cultures contribution to sustainable development
Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive and provide safe, nonviolent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all
By 2020, substantially expand globally the number of scholarships available to developing countries, in particular least developed countries, small island developing States and African countries, for enrolment in higher education, including vocational training and information and communications technology, technical, engineering and scientific programmes, in developed countries and other developing countries substantially increase the supply of qualified teachers, including through international cooperation for teacher training in developing countries, especially least developed countries and small island developing states

                        While enrolment in primary education in developing countries has reached 91 per cent, 57 million children remain out of school
QUALITY EDUCATION: WHY IT MATTERS
Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning.
Why does education matter?
Education is the key that will allow many other Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be achieved. When people are able to get quality education they can break from the cycle of poverty. Education therefore helps to reduce inequalities and to reach gender equality. It also empowers people everywhere to live more healthy and sustainable lives. Education is also crucial to fostering tolerance between people and contributes to more peaceful societies.
So through education, people can get better jobs and have better lives?
education reduces inequality. Using data for 114 countries in the 1985-2005 period, one extra year of education is associated with a reduction of the Gini coefficient by 1.4 percentage points.
But hasnt a lot of progress been made over the last few years on education?
 enrolment in primary education in developing countries has reached 91%. According to the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS Data Centre), since 2000, the percentage of out-ofschool children among primary-school-age children has declined from 40% to 22% in sub-Saharan Africa and from 20% to 6% in South Asia.
Where are people struggling the most to have access to education?
More than half of children that have not enrolled in school live in sub-Saharan Africa, which makes it the region with the largest number of out-of-school children in the world. And this region has a very young population so it will have to provide basic education to 444 million children between the ages of 3 and 15 in 2030, which is 2.6 times the numbers enrolled today.
Are there groups that have a more difficult access to education?
women and girls are one of these groups. About one-third of countries in the developing regions have not achieved gender parity in primary education.
In sub-Saharan Africa, Oceania and Western Asia, girls still face barriers to entering both primary and secondary school. These disadvantages in education also translate into lack of access to skills and limited opportunities in the labour market for young women.
Ask our governments to place education as a priority in both policy and practice.
Lobby our governments to make firm commitments to provide free primary school education to all, including vulnerable or marginalized groups.
Encourage the private sector to invest resources in the development of educational tools and facilities
Urge NGOs to partner with youth and other groups to foster the importance of education within local communities
                                         







