Indicator 7.1.2: Proportion of population with primary reliance on clean fuels and technology
Target 7.1: By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services
Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all
Definition and Rationale
Definition:
This indicator is defined as the number of people using clean fuels and technologies for domestic cooking, heating and lighting divided by total population reporting any cooking, heating or lighting. It is expressed as a percentage. 
Concepts:
Clean fuel and technologies is defined by the emission rate targets and specific fuel recommendations that are contained in the ‘Guidelines for Indoor Air Quality: Household Fuel Combustion’ report by WHO [http://www.who.int/indoorair/guidelines/hhfc/en/]. 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Cooking, lighting and heating represent a large share of household energy use across low and middle income countries. Fuels paired with inefficient technologies (such as open fires, inefficient stoves, space heaters and lamps) are associated with high levels of household (indoor) air pollution, which is, for cooking alone, estimated to cause over 4 million deaths annually. However, these deaths are avoidable with the adoption of clean fuels and technologies. This indicator measures the share of such adoption in the total population. 
Countries classified as high-income with a Gross National Income (GNI) of more than US$ 12,234[1] per capita are assumed to have made a complete transition to using clean fuels and technologies as the primary domestic energy source. For heating and lighting, the same methodology with the same above-mentioned assumptions will be used.


[1] As defined by the latest World Bank Income classification. https://blogs.worldbank.org/opendata/new-country-classifications-income-level-2017-2018 or databank.worldbank.org/data/download/site-content/CLASS.xls
Data Sources and Collection Method
Data for this indicator can be routinely collected at the national levels in most countries using censuses and household surveys including: United States Agency for International Development (USAID)-supported Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS); United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)-supported Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS); WHO-supported World Health Surveys (WHS); World Bank’s Living Standard Measurement Surveys (LSMS) and other reliable and nationally representative country surveys. 
In addition, the World Health Organization compiles a database of statistics on access to clean and polluting fuels and technologies that it has collected from the full global body of household surveys for cooking, heating and lighting. Currently, the WHO Database covers cooking energy for 157 countries and one territory for the period 1970-2016 and is updated regularly and publicly available.
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
The indicator is calculated as follows:
￼
Please note that this indicator is currently calculated by the WHO and reported at the global level based on the main type of fuel for cooking. Currently, clean cooking is defined as primary use of electricity, biogas, alcohol fuels, liquified petroluem gas or piped natural gas. Cooking occupies the largest share of overall household energy needs. Information on main cooking fuel use is widely available on household surveys and serves as surrogate for household eneregy access. Presently, the limited data collection on the technologies for cooking, heating and lighting is as a constraint for expanding this indicator to include the fuels and technologies used for other household energy end-uses. However in the future, the fuels and technologeis used for both lighting and heating, as well as the cooking stove itself will be included in reporting, as country level data are becoming increasingly avaialble with more robust monitoring.
The indicator is currenlty modelled for the purpose of monitoring trends and providing point estimates for countries and regions in specific years. 
Comments and limitations:
Households may use other secondary cooking fuels and stoves that may be harmful, but are not captured by this indicator. Depending on climatic and geographic conditions, heating and lighting with polluting fuels and technology combinations (also not captured by this indicator) can also be a contributor to household air pollution levels (in addition to contribute to outdoor air pollution). 
Currently there is a limited amount of available data capturing the type of cookstoves and the fuel and devices used in the home for heating and lighting. Progress is underway towards developing and piloting new methodologies like the World Bank’s Multi-tier Tracking Framework to capture the type of fuel and technological devices being used in households for cooking, heating and lighting. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators: N/A
Data Disaggregation
This indicator can be disaggregated by urban/rural place of residence, by estimates for different end-uses, and by fuel types.
