Indicator 7.3.1: Energy intensity measured in terms of primary energy and GDP
Target 7.3: By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency
Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 
Definition and Rationale
Definition: 
Energy intensity is defined as the total energy supplied to the economy per unit value of economic output. It is measured in Megajoules per United States Dollar. 
Concepts:
Total energy supply, as defined by the International Recommendations for Energy Statistics (IRES), as made up of production plus net imports minus international marine and aviation bunkers plus-stock changes. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is the measure of economic output. For international comparison purposes, GDP is measured in constant terms at purchasing power parity 
Rationale and Interpretation:
Energy intensity is an indication of how much energy is used to produce one unit of economic output. It is a proxy of the efficiency with which an economy is able to use energy to produce economic output. A lower ratio indicates that less energy is used to produce one unit of output.
Data Sources and Collection Method
Total energy supply is typically calculated in the making of national energy balances, which are maintained by the ministries of energy or national statistical offices in countries. GDP figures are also calculated by national statistical offices or other relevant agencies as part of their macroeconomic data gathering and statistical record keeping. 
Method of Computation and Other Methodological Considerations
Computation Method:
Energy intensity (EI) can be calculated using the following formula:
￼
This indicator is based on the development of comprehensive energy statistics across supply and demand for all energy sources – statistics used to produce a national energy balance. Internationally agreed methodologies for energy statistics are described in the “International Recommendations for Energy Statistics” (IRES), adopted by the UN Statistical Commission, available at: https://unstats.un.org/unsd/energy/ires/. 
Comments and limitations:
Energy intensity is only an imperfect proxy for energy efficiency. It can be affected by a number of factors, such as climate, structure of the economy, nature of economic activities etc. that are not necessarily linked to pure efficiency. 
Proxy, alternative and additional indicators:
Data Disaggregation
Disaggregation of energy intensity, e.g. by sector, could provide further insights into progress towards energy efficiency. At present it is only feasible to calculate such sector disaggregations for the following sectors – industry, residential, transport, agriculture, households – as reported in the Global Tracking Framework. It would be desirable, over time, to develop more refined sectoral level energy intensity indicators that make it possible to look at energy intensity by industry (e.g. cement, steel) or by type of vehicle (e.g. cars, trucks), for example. Doing so will not be possible without statistical collaboration with the relevant energy consuming sectors.
Decomposition analysis of energy intensity trends seeks to filter out factors that affect energy demand, such as economy wide scale and structure shifts, from more narrowly defined energy intensity shifts. The methodology applies decomposition analysis to isolate a more refined measure of energy intensity, one that sifts out the temporal shift of relative sector weights. This analysis is also reported in the Global Tracking Framework.
